.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH CHOPTEST ${MANNUM1_8} "October 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
choptest \- \*(Fx page chopping test program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/choptest
[
.I options
] input.tif
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I choptest
is a program for testing the page chopping support in
the \*(Fx software (specifically, in the
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8})
program).
.I choptest
analyzes a
.SM TIFF/F
(\c
.SM TIFF
Class F) file with 1-D MR- or 2-D MR-encoded data and
reports what the automatic page chopping logic would do
if the file were submitted for transmission.
Options are provided for controlling 
whether
.I choptest
checks the last page or all pages of the document, and
what whitespace threshold to use in deciding if a page
should be chopped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-a
Chop all pages in the document.
This is equivalent to setting the
.B PageChop
configuration parameter to ``all''; c.f.
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5}).
By default only the last page of the document is considered.
.TP
.BI \-t " inches"
Set the minimum whitespace threshold that must be present on
a page for it to be chopped.
This is equivalent to the
.B PageChopThreshold
configuration parameter; c.f.
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5}).
By default 
.I choptest
requires that at least 3 inches of trailing whitespace be present.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following shows a multi-page, high-resolution document.
Each page has insufficient whitespace for it to be chopped.
.PP
.nf
hyla% ./choptest -a ~/tiff/pics/faxix.tif
Chop pages with >=3" of white space at the bottom.
Don't chop, found 67 rows, need 588 rows
Don't chop, found 67 rows, need 588 rows
Don't chop, found 67 rows, need 588 rows
Don't chop, found 53 rows, need 588 rows
Don't chop, found 91 rows, need 588 rows
Don't chop, found 99 rows, need 588 rows
Don't chop, found 47 rows, need 588 rows
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5})
