.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH CQTEST 1M "October 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
cqtest \- \*(Fx copy quality checking test program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/cqtest
[
.I options
] input.tif
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I cqtest
is a program for testing the copy quality checking support in
the \*(Fx software (specifically, in the
.IR faxgetty (1M)
program).
.I cqtest
takes a
.SM TIFF/F
(\c
.SM TIFF
Class F) file and
generates a new
.SM TIFF/F
file that is a copy of the input file, but with any erroneous scanlines
replaced/regenerated.
In addition,
.I cqtest
prints diagnostic messages describing its actions and indicates whether
the input data has acceptable copy quality according to the copy
quality checking threshold parameters.
Options are provided for specifying 
copy quality checking threshold parameters
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 14
.BI \-m " badlines"
Set the maximum consecutive bad lines of data that may
appear in each acceptable page of input data.
This is equivalent to the
.B MaxConsecutiveBadLines
configuration parameter; c.f.
.IR config (4F).
By default 
.I cqtest
accepts no more than 5 consecutive bad lines in a page.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
Write output to
.IR file .
By default output is written to the file
.BR cq.tif .
.TP
.BI \-p " %goodlines"
Set the minimum percentage of ``good lines'' of data that
may appear in acceptable page of input data.
A line is good if it decodes without error to a row of pixels
that is the expected width.
This is equivalent to the
.B PercentGoodLines
configuration parameter; c.f.
.IR config (4F).
By default 
.I cqtest
requires that 95% of the rows of each page be good.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following shows a multi-page, high-resolution document with a
single error on each page.  Each page has acceptable
copy quality using the default threshold parameters.
.PP
.nf
hyla% /usr/local/sbin/cqtest ~/tiff/pics/faxix.tif
1728 x 297, 7.7 line/mm, 1-D MR, lsb-to-msb
RECV/CQ: Bad 1D pixel count, row 245, got 1616, expected 1728
RECV: 2234 total lines, 1 bad lines, 1 consecutive bad lines
1728 x 297, 7.7 line/mm, 1-D MR, lsb-to-msb
RECV/CQ: Bad 1D pixel count, row 148, got 3023, expected 1728
RECV: 2234 total lines, 1 bad lines, 1 consecutive bad lines
1728 x 297, 7.7 line/mm, 1-D MR, lsb-to-msb
RECV/CQ: Bad 1D pixel count, row 151, got 1722, expected 1728
RECV: 2234 total lines, 1 bad lines, 1 consecutive bad lines
1728 x 297, 7.7 line/mm, 1-D MR, lsb-to-msb
RECV/CQ: Bad 1D pixel count, row 148, got 1776, expected 1728
RECV: 2234 total lines, 1 bad lines, 1 consecutive bad lines
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxgetty (1M),
.IR config (4F)
