.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH DIALTEST ${MANNUM1_8} "March 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
dialtest \- \*(Fx dial string processing rules test program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/dialtest
[
.I options
]
.I dialrules
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dialtest
is an interactive program for the testing and development of
dial string processing rules used by \*(Fx.
.I dialtest
reads the file of rules specified on the command line
and then prompts for a dial string.
For each string typed in,
.I dialtest
prints the result of applying the canonicalization
and dial-string preparation rule sets.
A rule set whose name is
.I setname
can be specified by typing ``\fIsetname\fP(\fIstring\fP)'';
for example, ``\fICanonicalName\fP(+1.415.965.7824)''.
.PP
Note that
.I dialtest
reads the rules file only when it is initially started up.
This means that
.I dialtest
must be restarted for it to apply changes to a rules file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-a " code"
Use
.I code
as the value of
.B AreaCode
in the rules file.
The default area code is ``415''.
.TP 10
.BI \-c " code"
Use
.I code
as the value of
.B CountryCode
in the rules file.
The default country code is ``1''.
.TP 10
.BI \-i " prefix"
Use
.I prefix
as the value of
.B InternationalPrefix
in the rules file.
The default international dialing prefix is ``011''.
.TP 10
.BI \-l " prefix"
Use
.I prefix
as the value of
.B LongDistancePrefix
in the rules file.
The default long distance dialing prefix is ``1''.
.TP 10
.B \-v
Print each input line before displaying the results of
applying the dial string rules to the input string.
This can be useful, for example, in shell scripts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR dialrules (${MANNUM4_5})
