.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Multitalents
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH EDIT-FAXCOVER 1 "May 06, 2003"
.SH NAME
edit-faxcover \- edit faxcover.ps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B edit-faxcover
[
.I options
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I edit-faxcover
Edits the 10 header lines of the \*(Ps\(rg cover page document.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \--with-LINEx=string
Set variable
.I LINEx
where x is 1-10 to be the contents of "string".
Warning null strings will not blank out existing lines.
Use --with-LINE1=" " to blank out line 1 (actually it'll be a single space)

.TP 12
.BI \--with-FAXCOVER=ARG
Edit some other faxcover.ps file
The faxcover template file can also be specified by setting the
.SM FAXCOVER
environment variable.

.TP 12
.BI \--help
print this message.

.TP 12
.BI \--nointeractive
do not prompt for input [INTERACTIVE=no]

.TP 12
.BI \--quiet
do not print messages

.TP 12
.BI \--verbose
opposite of -quiet

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complaints about not being able to locate/write a template file.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/faxcover.ps    'u
.br
${LIBDATA}/faxcover.ps	default cover page template
.SH BUGS
null strings will not blank out existing lines.
