.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXABORT 1M "March 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
faxabort \- tell a \*(Fx server to abort a receive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxabort
[
.B \-q
.I dir
]
.I modem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxabort
sends a message to a \*(Fx 
.IR faxgetty (1M)
process servicing
.I modem
telling it to abort any active receive operation.
.PP
The specified
.I modem
can either be the name (typically the
last component of the terminal port the
modem is attached to), or the full name
of the associated 
.SM FIFO
named pipe file, e.g. ``\s-1FIFO\s+1.ttym2''.
.PP
Note that to abort a send operation the
.IR faxrm (1)
command must be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-q " dir"
Use a spooling area other than
.IR ${SPOOL} .
.SH NOTES
On some systems it is not possible to abort a received facsimile
because of problems in the operating system; on such systems the
message sent by 
.I faxabort
will be (silently) ignored.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/FIFO.<devid>    'u
${SPOOL}	default spooling area
${SPOOL}/FIFO	fifo for contacting \fIfaxq\fP
.fi
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax-server (4F)
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-server (4F),
.IR faxq (1M),
.IR faxgetty (1M)
