.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Robert Colquhoun
.\" 
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXADDUSER ${MANNUM1_8} "Aug 10, 1999"
.SH NAME
faxadduser \- add a fax user to the permissions file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxadduser
[
.B \-a
.I admin-password
] [
.B \-f
.I permissions file
] [
.B \-p
.I password
] [
.B \-u
.I uid
] 
.I username
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxadduser
creates a new user for HylaFAX services, updating appropriate
permission files(see
.IR hosts.hfaxd (${MANNUM4_5})).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.TP 10
.BI \-a " admin-password"
Password for the user to gain admin privileges.
.TP 10
.BI \-f " permissions-file"
Use a permissions file other than the default.
.TP 10
.BI \-p " password"
Password for the user to access fax services.
.TP 10
.BI \-u " user-id"
User id number for user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxdeluser (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hosts.hfaxd (${MANNUM4_5}),
