.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXALTER 1 "July 11, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxalter \- alter parameters of a \*(Fx job queued for transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxalter
[
.I options
]
.IR id ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxalter
changes the state of one or more \*(Fx jobs that
are queued for transmission.
Numerous parameters can be altered; see the options below.
.PP
An 
.I id
is a number that identifies a
.IR job
that has been submitted to \*(Fx; these numbers are printed by
.IR sendfax (1)
when jobs are queued for transmission and can also be displayed with
.IR faxstat (1).
Unprivileged users can alter the parameters of jobs that they own; clients
with administrative privileges on a server can manipulate any job (see the
.B \-A
option below).
The user may be specified by the
.B FAXUSER
environment variable.  By default,
.I faxalter
contacts the facsimile server on the host specified in the
.B FAXSERVER
environment variable; but consult the
.B \-h
option for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-a " time"
Specify a new time to send a job.
The syntax for specifying a time is the same as used
by
.IR sendfax (1)
(and
.IR at (1)).
.TP 10
.BI \-d " destination"
Change the destination number to 
.IR destination .
.TP 10
.BI \-h " host"
Force the server to be contacted on a specific
.IR host .
The
.I host
may be either a symbolic name or a network address.
If no
.B \-h
option is supplied,
.I faxalter
uses the
.SM FAXSERVER
environment variable to identify the \*(Fx server to contact.
If this variable is not set, then
.I faxalter
checks for a setting in the configuration files (first in the
per-user file and then in the system-wide file).
If all of the above fails, then
.I faxalter
attempts to contact a server on the machine where it is run.
.TP 10
.BI \-A
Use administrative privileges;
.I faxalter
will prompt for the password to set administrative privileges.
.TP 10
.BI \-k " time"
Specify a new time to kill a job;
the syntax is the same as used for the 
.B \-a
option.
.TP 10
.BI \-m " modem"
Assign/reassign the jobs to the specified
.IR modem .
Specifying ``any'' for
.I modem
causes the jobs to be scheduled for any available modem.
.TP 10
.B \-p
The jobs should be
.IR pushed ;
that is, they should be sent immediately
(this is equivalent to ``\-a now''.)
.TP 10
.BI \-P " pri"
Set the scheduling priority for the specified jobs.
The priority is an integer value in the range 0-255;
lower values give a job higher priority.
The default scheduling priority for a job is 127
and priorities are recalculated after each attempt to
process a job.
.TP 10
.BI \-t " tries"
Set the maximum number of times the
server should call the remote fax machine.
.TP 10
.BI \-n " scheme"
Select a notification scheme to use for the specified jobs.
Possible schemes are:
``\fInone\fP'' for no notification (default),
``\fIwhen done\fP'' for notification when the job is completed,
``\fIwhen requeued\fP'' for notification when the job is requeued
after a failed transmission attempt.
The
.BR \-Q ,
.BR \-D ,
and
.B \-R
options are shorthand for these notification schemes,
respectively.
One can also leave off ``\fIwhen\fP'' when using the
.B \-n
option; e.g., ``\fIdone\fP'' instead of ``\fIwhen done\fP''.
.TP 10
.B \-v
Trace the protocol exchanges between
.I faxalter
and the remote
.I hfaxd
process.
Tracing information is written to the standard output.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.I faxalter
reads configuration information from the file
.B ${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf
and then from the file
.BR ~/.hylarc .
Configuration files follow the conventions described in
.IR hylafax-client (1).
The following configuration parameters are recognized:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'AutoCoverPage    'u +\w'boolean    'u +\w'\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1    'u
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
Host	string	\s-1localhost\s+1	host to contact for service
Port	integer	\s-14559\s+1	port to use in contacting server
Protocol	string	\s-1tcp\s+1	protocol to use in contacting server
Verbose	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	whether or not to enable protocol tracing
.fi
.PP
The configuration parameters are explained below:
.TP 10
.B Host
The host to contact for service.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 10
.B Port
The network port to contact for service.
(Eqvuialent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 10
.B Protocol
The name of the communication protocol to use when contacting a server.
(Equivalent to the
.B FAXSERVICE
environment variable.)
.TP 10
.B Verbose
Control protocol tracing.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-v
option.)
.SH BUGS
Setting a job's killtime without also setting the time to send
may cause the wrong value for the killtime to be sent.
This is because the killtime is calculated as the difference in
time between the killtime and time to send: and if the time
to send is not specified, then
.I faxalter
uses the current time instead of querying the server for the
job's time to send.
.PP
.I faxalter
suspends a job before attempting to alter its state.
If a job is active when a suspend request is made there may
be a delay while waiting for the job to enter a consistent
state where it can be suspended.
If
.I faxalter
is interrupted during this time then jobs may be left suspended.
.PP
.I faxalter
only understands how to alter a subset of the available job
parameters; there are many more client-controllable parameters
that can only be modified by communicating directly with the server
using the underlying protocol.
.PP
The continued use of the
.IR at (1)-style
notation for specifying times is questionable (it was done for
backwards compatibility).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxrm (1),
.IR faxstat (1),
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8})
