.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXANSWER 1M "May 23, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxanswer \- tell a \*(Fx server to answer the telephone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxanswer
[
.B \-q
.I queue-dir
] [
.B \-h
.I how
]
.I modem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxanswer
sends a message to the \*(Fx
.IR faxgetty (1M)
process servicing
.I modem
telling it to answer the telephone.
This is useful, for example, when a modem is used on a
shared phone line and the server is
configured to not normally answer the phone.
.PP
The specified
.I modem
can either be the name (typically the
last component of the terminal port the
modem is attached to), or the full name
of the associated 
.SM FIFO
named pipe file, e.g. ``\s-1FIFO\s+1.ttym2''.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-q " dir"
Use a spooling area other than
.IR ${SPOOL} .
.TP 10
.B \-h
Specify exactly
.I how
the phone should
be answered.
By default, the server process is instructed
to answer the phone and
accept any kind of call (voice, data, fax).
Discrimination of the type of call is dependent on a modem's
.I "adaptive-answer"
support.
The
.B \-h
option can be used to force the server to answer the
phone for particular type of call: one of
.IR fax ,
.IR data ,
.IR voice ,
.IR any ,
or
.I extern
(to force
.I faxgetty
to invoke an external application to
to handle the call).
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/FIFO.<devid>    'u
${SPOOL}	default spooling area
${SPOOL}/FIFO	fifo for contacting \fIfaxq\fP
.fi
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax (4F)
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax (4F),
.IR faxgetty (1M)
