.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXCONFIG 1M "Oct 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
faxconfig \- dynamically change \*(Fx configuration parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxconfig
[
.B \-q
.I queue-dir
] [
.B \-m
.I modem
] [
.I parameter
.I value
\ ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxconfig
sends messages to a \*(Fx server process
telling it to install new values for one or more
configuration parameters.
These new values are maintained only for as long as that
server process executes; to setup long-lasting configuration
parameters the appropriate configuration file(s) must be
edited (see
.IR config (4F)).
.PP
.I faxconfig
is especially useful for setting certain configuration parameters
that control the operation of \*(Fx server processes.
For example, by manipulating the
.B ModemPriority
parameter of one or more
.IR faxgetty (1M)
processes it is easy to dynamically reconfigure the order in which
\*(Fx will assign modems to outbound jobs.
.PP
If no 
.I modem
is specified with the
.B \-m
option, then
.I faxconfig
will send messages to the central scheduler process,
.IR faxq (1M).
If a
.I faxgetty
process is to be contacted, the specified
.I modem
must be the last component of the character special device
filename the modem is attached to.
.PP
Consult the
.IR config (4F)
for the list of configuration parameters that can be set with
.IR faxconfig .
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.TP 10
.BI \-m " devid"
Direct messages to the
.I faxgetty
process servicing
.I devid 
instead of the central scheduler process,
.IR faxq .
The
.I devid
is an identifier derived from the name of
the modem's device file; for example
.I ttym2
for
.IR /dev/ttym2 ,
.I term_10
for
.IR /dev/term/10 .
.TP 10
.BI \-q " dir"
Use a spooling area other than
.IR ${SPOOL} .
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/FIFO.<devid>    'u
${SPOOL}	default spooling area
${SPOOL}/FIFO	fifo for contacting \fIfaxq\fP
.fi
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax (4F)
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax (4F),
.IR faxmodem (1M),
.IR faxstate (1M),
.IR faxgetty (1M),
.IR faxq (1M),
.IR config (4F).
