.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXCRON 1M "May 12, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxcron \- \*(Fx routine maintenance script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxcron
[
.B \-n
] [
.B \-l
.I lastrun
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B faxcron
is a command script that does routine upkeep tasks in a \*(Fx
spooling directory hierarchy.
This script is intended to be invoked from
.IR cron (1M)
on behalf of the fax user once a day,
with the standard output sent by mail to the \*(Fx administrator.
For example, the following crontab might be setup for the fax user:
.sp .5
.nf
.ti +.2i
\fC25   23    *    *    *   sh ${SBIN}/faxcron | mail FaxMaster\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.I faxcron
script does the following work:
.IP \(bu 3
report statistics for facsimile transmitted since the last time 
.I faxcron
was run.
.IP \(bu 3
report statistics for facsimile transmitted in the past week.
.IP \(bu 3
report statistics for facsimile received since the last time
.I faxcron
was run.
.IP \(bu 3
report statistics for facsimile received in the past week.
.IP \(bu 3
report any recent calls that failed suspiciously and return the associated trace log;
.IP \(bu 3
purge data that is 30 days or older from the remote machine information directory;
.IP \(bu 3
delete information that is 30 days or older from session trace log files;
.IP \(bu 3
remove files from the tmp directory that are older than 1 day;
.IP \(bu 3
remove received facsimile that are 7 days or older;
.IP \(bu 3
report sites that are currently having jobs rejected; and
.IP \(bu 3
force all session log files to be owned by the fax user
and kept with protection mode 644.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-n
Forces
.I faxcron
to run without updating any files.
.TP 10
.BI \-l " lastrun"
Forces the notion of the last time that
.I faxcron
was run to be 
.IR lastrun .
The value of 
.I lastrun
is a date and time string of the form ``MM/DD/YY HH:MM'' (the
.IR date (1)
format string ``%D %H:%M'').
.TP 10
.BI \-info " n"
Set the expiration time for data in the info database to be
.I n
days.
.TP 10
.BI \-log " n"
Set the expiration time for session log data to be
.I n
days.
.TP 10
.BI \-rcv " n"
Set the expiration time for files in the received facsimile queue to be
.I n
days.
.TP 10
.BI \-tmp " n"
Set the expiration time for files in the tmp directory to be
.I n
days.
.TP 10
.BI \-mode " m"
Set the file protection mode for session logs to 
.IR m
(a command line argument to 
.IR chmod (1)).
.SH NOTES
This script requires
.IR nawk (1)
or
.IR gawk (1)
and a
.I date (1)
program that supports the ``+format'' option.
.PP
If session logs are to be kept private this script must be modified
to filter out sensitive information such as calling card numbers.
(It should also be run with ``\-mode 0600'' so that
session log files are not publicly readable.)
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/etc/xferfaxstats    'u
${SPOOL}	spooling area
${SPOOL}/etc/lastrun	timestamp of last run
${SBIN}/xferfaxstats	for generating transmit statistics
${SBIN}/recvstats	for generating receive statistics
/tmp/faxcronXXXX	temporary file for truncating session logs
/tmp/faxlogXXXX	temporary file for logs of failed calls
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR cron (1M),
.IR faxq (1M),
.IR faxgetty (1M),
.IR faxsend (1M),
.IR xferfaxstats (1M),
.IR recvstats (1M),
.IR hylafax-server (4F)
