.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH FAXCOVER 1 "January 06, 2001"
.SH NAME
faxcover \- generate a \*(Ps cover page for an outgoing facsimile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxcover
[
.I options
]
.B \-f
.IR from-name
.B \-n
.I fax-number
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxcover
generates a \*(Ps\(rg cover page document on the standard output.
The cover page fills the entire area of a default page and
is created according to the information supplied
on the command line and a 
.I "cover sheet template"
file.
.PP
.I faxcover
is normally invoked by the
.IR sendfax (1)
program to generate a cover page for each outgoing facsmile.
.PP
.I faxcover
works by creating a \*(Ps dictionary
that contains definitions for the variable information
that is to be placed on the facsimile cover page.
Specifically, a dictionary with the following
symbols are defined:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'\fIto-voice-number    'u +\w'destination geographic location    'u +\w'from-voice-number    'u
\fBSymbol	Description	Symbol	Description\fP
\fIto\fP	destination person	\fIfrom\fP	\fIsending\fP person
\fIto-company\fP	destination company	\fIfrom-company\fP	sender's company
\fIto-location\fP	destination geographic location	\fIfrom-location\fP	sender geographic location
\fIto-voice-number\fP	person's voice phone number	\fIfrom-voice-number\fP	sender's voice phone number
\fIto-fax-number\fP	destination fax phone number	\fIfrom-fax-number\fP	sender's fax phone number
\fIcomments\fP	unbroken comment string	\fIcommentsX\fP	\fI\s-1X\s+1\fP'th line of comments
\fIregarding\fP	Re: subject	\fICommentX\fP	similar to \fIcommentsX\fP
\fIpageWidth\fP	page width in millimeters	\fIpage-count\fP	# pages other than cover page
\fIpageLength\fP	page length in millimeters	\fItodays-date\fP	current date and time
.fi
.PP
If the
.I comments
string is longer than
.I maxlencomments
characters, it is broken, on word boundaries or instances of ``\\n\'\', into multiple \*(Ps strings
.I comments\s-1X\s+1
where
.I \s-1X\s+1
is the line number; e.g.
.I comments2
for the second line of comments.
Long substrings without whitespace which exceed
.I maxlencomments
are also broken. By default
.I faxcover
will generate 20
.I comments\s-1X\s+1
strings, emitting null string values for empty lines.
This number can be changed with the
.B \-m
option; see below.
.I maxlencomments
is changed with the
.B \-z
option; see below.
.PP
Note that use of
.I commentsX
with non-fixed-width fonts can lead to spatial problems where characters
run off the edge of the generated cover page.  In such cases, use of
.I BreakIntoLines
(see below) may be a more suitable approach.
.PP
.I CommentX
is similar to
.I commentsX
except that its values are created only by breaking
.I comments
on instances of ``\\n\'\' and not otherwise.
.I maxlines
does not affect
.I CommentX
.PP
.I faxcover
also emits a \*(Ps procedure for breaking comment strings into
multiple lines using the \*(Ps font metric information.
This procedure is named
.I BreakIntoLines
and has the following usage convention:

%<line-width> <line-height> <x> <y> <string> BreakIntoLines -

eg
.sp .5
.RS
.nf
\fC/rule (_____________________________________________) def
/lw rule stringwidth pop def /lh 30 def
/y 191.4 def /x 0 def
y -30 0 { x exch moveto rule show } for
lw lh x y comments BreakIntoLines\fP
.fi
.RE
.sp .5
where the width of the rule controls the length of each line
of comments (note that it is made slightly shorter here for
the purpose of presentation),
.I x
and
.I y
are initialized to coordinate locations on the page where the
comment string should be imaged, and the number 30 is the
inter-line spacing appropriate for the font used to image the
comment lines.
.PP
If information is unavailable for an item, the associated
\*(Ps symbol is defined to be a null string.
.PP
Following the definition prologue,
a cover sheet template file is copied.
This file is expected to be a \*(Ps program
that uses the generated strings to create a cover page.
The template must include a
.B showpage
operator to cause the page to be imaged.
The above symbols will be defined in the
.IR "current dictionary" .
A trailing
.B end
operator is supplied by
.IR faxcover ,
so any manipulation of the dictionary stack should
leave the current dictionary on the top of the
stack on completion.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-c " comments"
Use
.I comments
for the comment string. You may use '\\n' to break it into several lines
on generated the cover page.
.TP 12
.BI \-C " file"
Use
.I file
as the template file.
The default template file is named
.IR faxcover.ps .
The template file can also be specified by setting the
.SM FAXCOVER
environment variable.
If the template filename is not an absolute pathname, then
.I faxcover
looks first for this file in the home directory
of the sender.
If no such file is present, then it looks in the
library directory where the \*(Fx
client application data are installed.
If no template file is located,
.I faxcover
will terminate without generating a cover page.
.TP 12
.BI \-D " format"
Use
.I format
as the formatting specification passed to
.IR strftime (3)
when generating the time and date placed on the cover page.
.TP 12
.BI \-f " name"
Use
.I name
for the sender's identity.
.TP 12
.BI \-l " location"
Use
.I location
for the geographic location of the destination company.
.TP 12
.BI \-L " location"
Use
.I location
for the geographic location of the sender's company.
.TP 12
.BI \-m " maxlines"
indicates the maximum number of
.I commentsX
lines to generate.
.TP 12
.BI \-n " number"
Use
.I number
for the destination fax machine number.
.TP 12
.BI \-N " number"
Use
.I number
for the sender's fax machine number.
.TP 12
.BI \-p " count"
Use
.I count
for the count of pages to follow the cover page.
.TP 12
.BI \-r " regarding"
Use
.I regarding
for the ``Re:'' field.
.TP 12
.BI \-s " size"
Set the page size to use for the transmitted facsimile.
Facsimile are normally imaged with a system-default page size
(usually letter-size pages, 8.5" by 11", for sites in North America).
Alternate page sizes are specified symbolically using either
the name or abbreviation of an entry in the
.IR pagesizes (${MANNUM4_5})
database; e.g.
.I a3
(ISO A3),
.I a4
(ISO A4),
.I a5
(ISO A5),
.I a6
(ISO A6),
.I b4
(ISO B4),
.I na-let
(North American Letter),
.I us-leg
(American Legal),
.I us-led
(American Ledger),
.I us-exe
(American Executive),
.I jp-let
(Japanese Letter),
and
.I jp-leg
(Japanese Legal).
Comparisons are case-insensitive and any match of a
substring of the full page-size name is sufficient; e.g. ``legal'' would
match ``American Legal''.
.IP
Note that it may not be permissible to image into the
full page area; the guaranteed reproducible area for a page is 
typically inset.
Also, note that while arbitrary page sizes can be specified through
the page size database,
only a limited set of page dimensions are supported by the
Group 3 facsimile protocol.
Thus if an odd-size facsimile is submitted for transmission
it may not be possible to determine if it can be sent
until the fax server establishes communication
with the remote facsimile machine.
.TP 12
.BI \-t " name"
Use
.I name
for the receiver's identity.
.TP 12
.BI \-v " number"
Use
.I number
for the receiver's voice phone number.
.TP 12
.BI \-V " number"
Use
.I number
for the sender's voice phone number.
.TP 12
.BI \-x " company"
Use
.I company
for the destination company name.
.TP 12
.BI \-X " company"
Use
.I company
for the sender's company name.
.TP 12
.BI \-z " maxlencomments"
indicates the maximum length in number of characters allowed in a
.I commentsX
string.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Complaints about not being able to locate a template file.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/faxcover.ps    'u
~/.faxdb	personal fax number database
.br
~/.hylarc	per-user configuration file
.br
${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf	system-wide configuration file
.br
${LIBDATA}/faxcover.ps	default cover page template
.br
${LIBDATA}/pagesizes	page size database
.SH BUGS
.I faxcover
should be able to determine the appropriate length of
.I commentsX
strings by using font metric information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR sendfax (1)
.IR edit-faxcover (1)
