.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXMODEM ${MANNUM1_8} "Oct 27, 1995"
.SH NAME
faxmodem \- dynamically add a modem to a \*(Fx server system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxmodem
[
.B \-q
.I queue-dir
] [
.B \-c
.I capabilities
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-P
] [
.B \-u
.I priority
]
.I modem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxmodem
sends a message to the \*(Fx queuer process
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8})
telling it that the specified modem is ready for use and
informing it about its fax-related capabilities.
This is the mechanism by which modems are added in a send-only
configuration.
Once a modem has been configured its status can be reconfigured
using the
.IR faxstate (${MANNUM1_8})
program.
.I faxmodem
can also be used to alter the capabilities and usage priority
of a previously configured modem.
.PP
The specified
.I modem
is either the terminal device name where the modem is
attached or a \*(Fx device identifier (see
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5})
for information on device identifiers).
Device names may be given without
a leading directory pathname; e.g. ttyf2 instead of /dev/ttyf2.
.PP
To figure out the capabilities of a modem either use the
.IR probemodem (${MANNUM1_8})
script or manually communicate with the modem.
For a Class 2 modem the capabilities are given in the response to
the ``AT+FDCC=?'' query command and
for a Class 2.0 modem the ``AT+FCC=?'' command.
To check if a modem is capable of polled retrieval of documents
use ``AT+FSP=?'' for a Class 2.0 modem or ``AT+FSPL=?'' for a Class 2 modem;
if ``1'' is indicated in the response then the modem supports polling.
For example,
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
hyla% \fBcu -l ttyf2\fP
Connected
\fBat+fclass=2.0\fP
OK
\fBat+fcc=?\fP
(0,1),(0-5),(0-2),(0-2),0,0,0,(0-7)
OK
\fBat+fsp=?\fP
(0,1)
OK
.RE
.fi
.PP
In this case the modem would be added using the command:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
${SBIN}/faxmodem -c '(0,1),(0-5),(0-2),(0-2),0,0,0,(0-7)' ttyf2
.RE
.fi
.LP
(by default polling is assumed to be supported).
.PP
Class 1 modems require a different technique.
The host implements most of the fax protocol so all that is needed is
to identify the possible signalling rates the modem supports for
transmitting; this
is done with the ``AT+FTM=?'' command.
For example,
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
hyla% \fBcu -l ttyf2\fP
Connected
\fBat+fclass=1\fP
OK
\fBat+ftm=?\fP
24,48,72,73,74,96,97,98,121,122,145,146
OK
.RE
.fi
.PP
In this case the modem supports 2400, 4800, 7200, 9600, 12200, and 14400
bps signalling rates so the modem would be added using:
.RS
.nf
.sp .5
${SBIN}/faxmodem -c '(0,1),(0-5),(0-2),(0-2),(0,1),0,0,(0-7)' ttyf2
.RE
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.TP 10
.B \-c
Specify the fax capabilities using the syntax defined by
the ``Class 2'' specification:
``(\fIvr\fP),(\fIbr\fP),(\fIwd\fP),(\fIln\fP),(\fIdf\fP),(\fIec\fP),(\fIbf\fP),(\fIst\fP)''.
where,
\fIvr\fP specifies vertical resolution,
\fIbr\fP specifies bit rate,
\fIwd\fP specifies page width,
\fIln\fP specifies page length,
\fIdf\fP specifies data compression,
\fIec\fP specifies error correction,
\fIbf\fP specifies binary file transfer,
and
\fIst\fP specifies scan time/line;
and each of the above specifications is a range or list
of numbers that defines the exact capabilities of the modem.
For example, the default capabilities are
``(0,1),(0-3),(0-4),(0-2),(0),(0),(0),(0-7)''
which specifies the modem is capable of sending and receiving
both low and high resolution facsimile with a variety of page
sizes; supports signalling rates 0-3 (2400 bps through 9600 bps);
supports only 1D-encoded data compression; and does not support
error correction or binary file transfer.
A modem's ability to support polled retrieval of facsimile is
specified separately with the
.B \-p
and
.B \-P
options.
.TP 10
.B \-p
Specify the modem is \fBnot\fP capable of polling for remote documents.
.TP 10
.B \-P
Specify the modem is capable of polling for remote documents (default).
.TP 10
.BI \-q " dir"
Use a spooling area other than
.IR ${SPOOL} .
.TP 10
.BI \-u " priority"
Assign the specified priority to the modem when scheduling
it for outbound use.
Modem priorities are numbers in the range [0..255] with lower
numbers meaning higher priority.
Modems are initially assigned priority 255.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/FIFO.<devid>    'u
${SPOOL}	default spooling area
${SPOOL}/FIFO	fifo for contacting \fIfaxq\fP
.fi
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5})
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR faxgetty (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}).
