.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH FAXMAIL 1 "July 22, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxmail \- \*(Fx mail-to-fax gateway application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxmail
[
.I options
] [
.I destination
[
.I from
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxmail
takes an electronic mail message on standard input
and converts it to \*(Ps\(rg in a form that is suitable
for transmission as a facsimile.
The converted document is either written to the standard
output or, if direct delivery is enabled,
it is submitted directly to a \*(Fx server for transmission.
.PP
.I faxmail
is designed for use in constructing electronic mail to facsimile
gateway services.
For example, mail aliases may be created to automatically
transmit electronic mail; e.g.
.PP
.nf
.ti +0.5i
sam: "|${BIN}/faxmail -d sam@5551212"
.fi
or 
.I faxmail
may be used as a ``mail transport agent'', extracting the necessary
delivery information directly from the envelope of the mail message.
.PP
If
.I faxmail
is invoked without enabling direct delivery then it
just formats the mail message on the standard input and
writes the result to the standard output.
To enable direct delivery the
.B \-d
option must be specified on the command line; see below
for more information.
.SH FORMATTING
.I faxmail
formats a mail message according to the following rules:
First it parses the envelope information interpreting any
meta-header information (see below) that is present.
Once the entire envelope has been collected it emits a
formatted set of header lines.
By default all header information except the
``From'', ``To'', ``Cc'', ``Subject'', and ``Date''
lines are discarded.
Header lines that are kept have the 
.I tag
(the string to the left of the ``:'')
set in a \fIbold font\fP and the
.I value
(the string to the right of the ``:'')
set in an \fIitalic font\fP.
Mail messages that conform to the Multipurpose Internet
Mail Extensions (\s-1MIME\s+1) specification are parsed
and handled according to the rules given below.
Plain text body parts of a mail message are formatted in a
\fItext font\fP with any long lines wrapped at
word boundaries unless the
.B \-c
option has been specified.
.PP
By default,
.I faxmail
sets all text in 10 point type on an 8.5" by 11" portrait-oriented page
with .35" top margin, .25" bottom margin and .25" left and right
hand margins.
There are command-line options to control the point size,
page dimensions, orientation, and multi-column formatting.
Text formatting can also be controlled through meta-header
directives placed in the envelope of the mail message.
.SH "ENVELOPE PROCESSING"
.I faxmail
pre-processes the envelope information (i.e. the header lines) before
formatting the message contents.
Header lines whose names begin with ``X-FAX-'' (case-insensitive) are
handled specially\-they are treated as command directives that specify
how to generate the resultant \*(Ps or, optionally, how to deliver
the resulting document as facsimile.
The set of known meta-headers corresponds to the set of configuration
parameters defined below.
A meta-header is specified as ``X-FAX-\fIparameter\fP'' where
.I parameter
is the name of a configuration parameter; e.g.
``X-FAX-TabStop'' to set the number of spaces between tab stops.
.PP
Controls for specifying headers to be passed through
in the formatted text identify not only which headers but also the
order in which the headers should be emitted.
.I faxmail
initializes the set of headers to retain to: ``To From Subject Cc Date''.
If this order is acceptable then additional headers can simply 
be added with the
X-FAX-Headers directive; e.g. ``X-FAX-Headers: Message-id''.
If however a different order is desired then the header
set should be cleared with a ``clear'' header tag
and then completely specified in the desired order; for example,
.nf
.sp
X-FAX-Headers: clear Message-id Date To Subject From Cc
.fi
.PP
will cause headers to be emitted in the order
``Message-Id Date To Subject From Cc'' (depending on what headers
are present).
Note in particular that all header lines in the envelope can
be suppressed by specifying ``X-FAX-Headers: clear''; this is
useful, for example, when the body of the mail message contains
a preformatted document that is to be transmitted.
.PP
In addition to the above controls,
.I faxmail
can also be instructed to substitute an arbitrary string for a header
tag when generating the final envelope.
This facility can be used to better format ad-hoc header information
that is passed through the envelope of the message.
The ``X-FAX-MapHeader'' meta-header specifies how to map a header line.
For example,
.nf
.sp
X-FAX-MapHeader: x_FAX_For Deliver FAX To
.fi
.sp
would cause any header ``x_FAX_For'' that appeared in the envelope
to be replaced in the formatted envelope by ``Deliver FAX To''.
.SH "MIME PROCESSING"
.I faxmail
parses 
.SM MIME
mail messages and does some rudimentary work to:
.IP \(bu 3
strip out unprintable content such as audio, video, or binary data,
.IP \(bu 3
decode encoded parts,
.IP \(bu 3
insert ``digest dividers'' between multipart/digest subparts,
.IP \(bu 3
format message/rfc822 parts as described above for the top-level envelope, and
.IP \(bu 3
optionally convert graphical parts (e.g. images) for display.
.PP
.SM MIME
processing is fairly simple and (currently) somewhat constrained.
.I faxmail
has builtin support for the following MIME parts:
text/plain, multipart/mixed, multipart/digest, message/rfc822,
application/postscript, and application/x-faxmail-prolog.
Parts can also be processed through external processing scripts that
.I faxmail
looks for in a ``\s-1MIME\s+1 converters'' directory hierarchy.
External scripts may override builtin processing or supplement
the builtin support.
For each
.SM MIME 
body part with type
.I T
and subtype
.I S
.I faxmail
checks first for an executable script named T/S in the
converter hierarchy.
If a script exists then it is run and the result is appended to
the output PostScript document.
Otherwise if the part has builtin support then it is processed
directly.
Any part that does not have external or builtin support is discarded
and replaced by a message that indicates the part was removed.
This discarded message can be suppressed with the
.I MarkDiscarded
configuration parameter (also settable with an X-FAX-MarkDiscarded
line in the envelope).
.PP
The builtin handling support is as follows:
text/plain parts are formatted using the default \fItext font\fP
and point size;
multipart/mixed are ``burst'' and interpreted per the specification
but are otherwise unformatted;
multipart/digest are burst and an optional ``digest divider'' marking
may be inserted before each subpart;
message/rfc822 are formatted as described above with envelope header
lines culled and formatted with bold and italic fonts
(in addition, if there is insufficient space in the current output page/column
for the message envelope, optional divider, and one line of text, then
.I faxmail
will insert a ``break'' so the the message starts at the top of the next
page/column);
application/postscript are copied through untouched to the output;
application/x-faxmail-prolog are copied through untouched to the
end of the prologue section of the generated PostScript document
to permit customization of the formatted output.
.PP
.I faxmail
supports the following Content-Transfer-Encoding schemes:
7bit, 8bit, binary, base64, quoted-printable, and x-uuencode.
Any character set that is not us-ascii is treated as iso-8859-1.
.PP
In general it is recommended that senders either permit 
.I faxmail
to format message contents or completely bypass the formatting
facilities and submit data that is to be processed by
.IR sendfax .
Trying to combine the two facilities by, for example, combining PostScript
with text that is to be formatted is unlikely to work well because
.I faxmail
does not track the amount of space on the page that a non-text 
.SM MIME
part uses.
.SH "DIRECT DELIVERY"
When
.I faxmail
is invoked with the
.B \-d
option it delivers the formatted document directly to a \*(Fx
server for transmission as facsimile.
Command line arguments may be supplied to specify the 
delivery destination and sender identity; typically from
information extracted by the mail transport facility.
A command line
.I destination
is specified with the same syntax as
the argument for the
.B \-d
option to the
.IR sendfax (1)
command.
Similarly any
.I from
identity specified on the command line follows the same rules
as the
.B \-f
option to
.IR sendfax .
An explicit dialstring to use in delivery can also be specified with an
X-FAX-Dialstring header in the mail message envelope.
If no sender identity is provided on the command line then
.I faxmail
will extract it from the ``From'' line in the envelope.
.I faxmail
will not submit a message for delivery if either the dialstring
or sender identity is missing or null.
.PP
When direct delivery is enabled X-FAX- header lines may be
included in the mail message envelope to control the submission
and delivery process.
As above these lines are specified as ``X-FAX-\fIparameter\fP'' where
.I parameter
is the name of a configuration parameter for the
.I sendfax
program; e.g.
``X-FAX-VRes'' to set the vertical resolution of the transmitted facsimile.
By default automatic cover page generation is enabled when direct
delivery is used; this can be overridden with the
.B \-n
option on the command line or by including an
X-FAX-AutoCoverPage header in the message envelope.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-1
Set text in one column (default).
.TP 10
.B \-2
Set text two columns.
.TP 10
.BI \-b " font"
Make
.IR font ,
a \*(Ps font name,
the ``\fIbold font\fP'' used to set header lines.
The default bold font is Helvetica-Bold.
.TP 10
.B \-c
Clip long text lines instead of wrapping them at page margins.
.TP 10
.B \-d
Enable direct delivery of facsimile; the formatted document
will be submitted directly to a \*(Fx server for transmission
as facsimile.
This option is similar to piping the output of
.I faxmail
to the input of
.IR sendfax (${MANNUM1_8})
except when direct delivery is enabled
.I faxmail
interprets ``x-fax-'' header lines in the envelope of the mail message to 
look for control information to use in delivering the facsimile and,
by default, no automatic cover page generation is done.
.TP 10
.BI \-f " font"
Make
.IR font ,
a \*(Ps font name,
the text font used to set the body of mail messages.
The default text font is Courier.
.TP 10
.BI \-H " height"
Use
.I height
as the height, in inches, of the output page.
The default page height is taken from the default page size.
.TP 10
.BI \-i " font"
Make
.IR font ,
a \*(Ps font name,
the ``\fIitalic font\fP'' used to set header lines.
The default italic font is Helvetica-Oblique.
.TP 10
.BI \-M "\fBl=\fP#,\fBr=\fP#,\fBt=\fP#,\fBb=\fP#"
Set the page margins; the default margins are:
left and right .25 inch, top .35 inch, bottom .25 inch.
.TP 10
.B \-n
Suppress auto cover page generation when doing direct delivery.
.TP 10
.BI \-p " size"
Set all text using
.I size
for the font point size.
.TP
.B \-r
Set pages rotated by 90 degrees (in ``Landscape mode'').
.TP
.B \-R
Set pages unrotated (in ``Portrait mode'').
.TP 10
.BI \-s " size"
Set the page size to use.
Cover pages are normally generated using
a system-default page size
(usually letter-size pages, 8.5" by 11", for sites in North America).
Alternate page sizes are specified symbolically using either
the name or abbreviation of an entry in the
.IR pagesizes (${MANNUM4_5})
database; e.g.
.I a3
(ISO A3),
.I a4
(ISO A4),
.I a5
(ISO A5),
.I a6
(ISO A6),
.I b4
(ISO B4),
.I na-let
(North American Letter),
.I us-leg
(American Legal),
.I us-led
(American Ledger),
.I us-exe
(American Executive),
.I jp-let
(Japanese Letter),
and
.I jp-leg
(Japanese Legal).
Comparisons are case-insensitive and any match of a
substring of the full page-size name is sufficient; e.g. ``legal'' would
match ``American Legal''.
.TP 10
.BI \-u " user"
Set the user name to use when logging in to do direct delivery.
By default the user is specified by the
.B MailUser
configuration parameter (see below).
If a null user name is specified, then
the facsimile will be submitted using the identity of the user that invoked
.IR faxmail .
.TP 10
.B \-v
Enable tracing of envelope,
.SM MIME,
and
job submission processing.
Diagnostic information is written to the standard error (envelope
and MIME processing) and standard output (job submission).
.TP 10
.BI \-W " width"
Use
.I width
as the width, in inches, of the output page.
The default page width is taken from the default page size.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.I faxmail
reads configuration information from the files
.BR ${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf ,
and
.BR ~/.hylarc ;
in that order.
Configuration files follow the conventions described in
.IR hylafax-client (1).
The following configuration parameters are recognized:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'TextLineHeight    'u +\w'\fI\s-1see below\s+1\fP    'u +\w'\s-1Helvetica-Oblique\s+1    'u
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
AutoCoverPage	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	automatically generate cover page
BoldFont	string	\s-1Helvetica-Bold\s+1	font for setting header tags
Columns	integer	\s-11\s+1	number of columns in formatted output
DigestDivider	string	\-	multipart/digest divider \*(Ps command
FontPath	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	directory for font metric files
GaudyHeaders	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	enable/disable gaudy page headers
Headers	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	headers to retain in envelope
ISO8859	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	use ISO 8859-1 character encoding
ItalicFont	string	\s-1Helvetica-Oblique\s+1	font for setting header values
LineWrap	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	wrap/truncate text lines
MailUser	string	\-	user identity for doing direct delivery
MarkDiscarded	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	mark discarded \s-1MIME\s+1 body parts
MapHeader	string	\-	define header mapping
MIMEConverters	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	pathname of \s-1MIME\s+1 converter scripts
Orientation	string	\s-1portrait\s+1	orientation of text on page
OutlineMargin	inches	\s-10\s+1	width of outline line
PageCollation	string	\s-1forward\s+1	collate pages in forward or reverse direction
PageHeaders	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	enable/disable page headers
PageHeight	float	\-	output page height
PageMargins	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	margins for formatted page
PageSize	string	\s-1default\s+1	output page size from database
PageWidth	float	\-	output page width
Prologfile	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	pathname of \*(Ps prologue file
TabStop	integer	\s-18\s+1	inter-stop setting in characters
TextFont	string	\s-1Courier\s+1	name of font for setting text
TextLineHeight	inches	\-	text formatting line height control
TextPointSize	inches	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	size to use in setting text
Verbose	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	trace envelope and \s-1MIME\s+1 processing
.fi
.PP
Values marked as 
.I inches
are specified using a syntax that
identifies one of several possible units:
.RS
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'#.##sp    'u
#.##bp	big point (1in = 72bp)
#.##cc	cicero (1cc = 12dd)
#.##cm	centimeter
#.##dd	didot point (1157dd = 1238pt)
#.##in	inch
#.##mm	millimeter (10mm = 1cm)
#.##pc	pica (1pc = 12pt)
#.##pt	point (72.27pt = 1in)
#.##sp	scaled point (65536sp = 1pt)
.RE
.fi
.LP
Unit names can be upper or lower case but no white space
is permitted between the number and the unit.
Values specified with no unit are interpreted as points.
.PP
The configuration parameters are explained below.
Most parameters correspond to a command line option.
Parameter values identified above as
.I inches
are converted according to the conventions described above.
.TP 15
.B AutoCoverPage
Control whether or not a cover page is automatically generated
for each job.
.TP 15
.B BoldFont
The name of the font to use to set header tags (i.e. the
string to the left of the ``:'').
.TP 15
.B Columns
The number of columns to set text in.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-m
option.)
.TP 15
.B DigestDivider
The string to emit in the output before each subpart of a
multipart/digest mail message.
This string is typically a \*(Ps procedure that draws a
mark of some sort.
Dividers are expected to use no more vertical space on the
output page than a line of text.
.TP 15
.B FontPath
The path where Adobe Font Metric (\s-1AFM\s+1) files are
located; by default ${FONTPATH}.
.TP 15
.B GaudyHeaders
Control whether or not to use a gaudy-style page header.
Enabling gaudy headers implicitly enables page headers.
.TP 15
.B Headers
Define the headers retained from the envelope and specify the order
that they should be emitted in the formatted output.
The set of headers is initialized to ``To From Subject Cc Date''.
Headers specified are appended to this list except for
a ``clear'' header that causes the current set of headers to be discarded.
.TP 15
.B ISO8859
Control the use of
.SM "ISO 8859-1"
encoding in the generated \*(Ps
.TP 15
.B ItalicFont
The name of the font to use to set header values (i.e. the
string to the right of the ``:'').
.TP 15
.B LineWrap
Control whether long text lines are wrapper or truncated at the
right hand margin.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-c
option.)
.TP 15
.B MailUser
The account name to use to login to a fax server when doing direct delivery.
Note that this account name is not used for the identity of the sender;
this comes from the command line or the ``From'' line in the mail message.
If a null account name is specified, then
the facsimile will be submitted using the identity of the user that invoked
.IR faxmail .
.TP 15
.B MapHeader
Define a substitution for the specified header that should be done
each time the header is emitted in the formatted envelope.
Header tags are matched in a case-insensitive manner.
.TP 15
.B MarkDiscarded
Control whether discarded 
.SM MIME
parts are replaced by a text message indicating the original
content was removed.
.TP 15
.B MIMEConverters
The pathname of a directory hierarchy that has scripts for
external processing of 
.SM MIME
body parts.
The default pathname is ${LIBEXEC}/faxmail.
.TP 15
.B Orientation
Control whether pages are oriented horizontally (``landscape'')
or vertically (``portrait'').
(Equivalent to the
.B \-r
and
.B \-R
options.)
.TP 15
.B OutlineMargin
Control whether columns of text have a line drawn around them and
the width of the line.
Setting this parameter to 0 disables outlines.
.TP 15
.B PageCollation
Control whether the output file has pages collated in the same
order as the input file (``forward'') or in reverse order (``reverse).
.TP 15
.B PageHeaders
Control whether page headers are generated.
.TP 15
.B PageHeight
Set the output page height (in inches).
.TP 15
.B PageMargins
Set the output page margins.
Margins are specified as string of the form:
``\fBl=\fP#,\fBr=\fP#,\fBt=\fP#,\fBb=\fP#''
where 
.B l
indicates the left margin,
.B r
indicates the right margin,
.B t
indicates the top margin,
.B b
indicates the bottom margin, and
numbers are interpreted as 
.IR inches .
(Equvalent to the 
.B \-M
option.)
.TP 15
.B PageSize
Set the output page dimensions by name.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-s
option.)
.TP 15
.B PageWidth
Set the output page width (in inches).
.TP 15
.B PrologFile
The pathname of a file containing \*(Ps that should be included
in the prologue section of the generated \*(Ps.
The default prologue file is ${LIBDATA}/faxmail.ps.
.TP 15
.B TabStop
Set the tab stop distance (in characters).
.TP 15
.B TextFont
Set the name of font to use for setting text.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-f
option.)
.TP 15
.B TextLineHeight
Set the vertical text line height and spacing.
.TP 15
.B TextPointSize
Set the point size to use in setting plain text.
(Equvalent to the
.B \-p
option.)
.TP 15
.B Verbose
Control tracing envelope and MIME processing.
.SH NOTES
Because a sender's identity in an electronic mail message is inherently
untrustworthy, using
.I faxmail
to build a mail to fax gateway is problematic.
Unless mail service is
somehow restricted or the sender's identity is verified using a mechanism
such as RFC 1847's multipart/signed MIME type
there is no reliable way to restrict access to facilities
setup with 
.IR faxmail .
.SH BUGS
Only the last instance of a header is kept and written to the output.
This means, for example, that only the last of many ``Received'' lines
will be included in the formatted output.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/sendfax.conf    'u
.nf
~/.hylarc	per-user configuration file
${LIBDATA}/pagesizes	page size database
${LIBDATA}/faxmail.ps	\*(Ps prologue
${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf	system-wide configuration file
${LIBDATA}/faxmail.conf	system-wide configuration file
${LIBDATA}/sendfax.conf	system-wide configuration file for direct delivery
${LIBEXEC}/faxmail	hierarchy for external \s-1MIME\s+1 converters
${FONTPATH}	for font metrics
/usr/tmp/faxmailXXXXXX	temporary files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR textfmt (1),
.IR sendfax (1)
