.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXQCLEAN ${MANNUM1_8} "March 14, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxqclean \- \*(Fx queue cleaner process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxqclean
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxqclean
is a program that processes completed \*(Fx
jobs and expunges unreferenced document files.
This program is intended to be invoked by
.IR cron (${MANNUM1_8})
on behalf of the super user (i.e. root) one or more times a day.
For example, the following crontab entry might be setup for root to run
.I faxqclean
each hour.
.sp .5
.nf
.ti +.2i
\s-1\fC0   *    *    *    *   ${SBIN}/faxqclean\fP\s+1
.fi
.PP
When
.I faxqclean
is run it scans the
.B doneq
subdirectory in the \*(Fx spooling area and process each job
according to the
.B doneop
field specified in the job description file; c.f.
.IR sendq (${MANNUM4_5}).
Jobs that are marked for removal are purged and references to documents
are removed.
Jobs that are marked for archival may be archived depending on the
options supplied on the command line.
.PP
After scanning for completed jobs
.I faxqclean
scans the
.B docq
subdirectory and builds up a table of document files.
Files that are not referenced by any job and that are older than
a specified threshold are removed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-a
Enable job archiving support.
\fINB: v4.0 does not include support for job archiving.\fP
.TP 10
.BI \-j " secs"
Set the job age threshold (in seconds)
that controls how long jobs may reside in the
.B doneq
directory before being processed.
By default this value is 15 minutes (15*60 = 900 seconds).
.TP 10
.BI \-d " secs"
Set the document age threshold (in seconds)
that controls how long unreferenced files may reside in the
.B docq
directory before being removed.
By default this value is 1 hour (60*60 = 3600 seconds).
.TP 10
.B \-n
Do not carry out any work; just show what would be done.
This option is useful together with the
.B \-t
option for debugging.
.TP 10
.BI \-q " dir"
The specified directory is treated as the spooling area.
The default spooling area,
.IR ${SPOOL} ,
is defined at the time the software is built.
.TP 10
.B \-t
Trace in great detail exactly what
.I faxqclean
is doing.
Messages are sent to the standard output.
.TP 10
.B \-v
Print messages on the standard output about jobs removed or
archived and about document files removed.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/archive    'u
.nf
${SPOOL}/doneq	directory to scan for completed jobs
${SPOOL}/docq	directory to scan for unreferenced documents
${SPOOL}/archive	directory where archived jobs are placed
.fi
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5})
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR sendq (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR doneq (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR archive (${MANNUM4_5}).
