.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXQ ${MANNUM1_8} "October 27, 1995"
.SH NAME
faxq \- \*(Fx queue manager process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${LIBEXEC}/faxq
[
.B \-D
] [
.B \-q
.I queue-dir
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxq
is the central queueing agent for \*(Fx.
One (and only one)
.I faxq
process is normally running at all times.
.I faxq
is responsible for scheduling, preparing, and initiating
outbound facsimile jobs (and potentially other types of jobs as well).
.PP
.I faxq
may be run by itself to provide outbound-only services or it
may be run together with one or more
.IR faxgetty (${MANNUM1_8})
processes, in which case inbound services (e.g. receiving
facsimile) are provided.
When
.I faxq
is run by itself the set of available modems must be specified
using the
.IR faxmodem (${MANNUM1_8})
command.
Each modem specified in this way is assumed to exist and to
be capable of use as a facsimile modem.
When
.I faxq
is run in conjunction with
.IR faxgetty
processes, it is not necessary to use
.I faxmodem
to specify modems; instead the programs
communicate information about the status and
capabilities of each modem.
The latter setup provides a more robust and powerful system and
is the intended way for the software to operate.
.PP
.I faxq
receives notification of outbound jobs to process from the
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8})
process that implements the server-side of the \*(Fx
client-server protocol.
Notification is through messages sent to a
.SM FIFO
special file that
.I faxq
listens to.
This file is also used by other administrative programs such as
.IR faxquit (${MANNUM1_8}).
.PP
Many aspects of
.I faxq
operation may be controlled through a configuration file.
This file is located in the spooler hierarchy in the
.B etc
subdirectory and is named
.B config
(as opposed to the per-modem configuration files named
.BI config. devid );
consult
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5})
for detailed information on this configuration file.
Note that
.I faxq
automatically re-reads its configuration file if it has been
changed.
It is also possible to dynamically change configuration parameters
in a running process with the
.IR faxconfig (${MANNUM1_8})
program.
Beware however that parameters changed in this way will be reset
to the values specified in the configuration file if the file
is re-read.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-q " dir"
The specified directory is treated as the spooling area.
The default spooling area,
.IR ${SPOOL} ,
is defined at the time the software is built.
.TP 10
.B \-D
This option forces
.I faxq
to remain attached to the controlling tty from which it was invoked.
In normal operation
.I faxq
will
.IR fork (2)
and disassociate itself from the controlling tty.
This option is useful for debugging.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/etc/config    'u
.nf
${SPOOL}/FIFO	FIFO special file for submitting commands
${SPOOL}/etc/config	configuration file
.fi
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5})
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxabort (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxconfig (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxmodem (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxquit (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxstate (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR getty (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5}).
