.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXRM 1 "May 12, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxrm \- remove a \*(Fx job or document from a server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxrm
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-h
.I hostname
]
.IR id ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxrm
removes one or more jobs or documents from a \*(Fx server.
If a job that is to be removed is being processed by a server,
it is first aborted.
.PP
An 
.I id
is either a number that identifies a
.I job
(default) or, if the
.B \-d
option is specified, a document pathname.
Job identifiers are printed by
.IR sendfax (1)
when jobs are queued for transmission; they can also be displayed with
.IR faxstat (1).
The names of documents associated with outbound jobs
can be seen by supplying the
.B \-f
option to
.IR faxstat .
Documents in the receive queue can be viewed with the 
.B \-r
option to
.IR faxstat .
.PP
Unprivileged users can only remove jobs or documents that they own.
Clients with administrative privileges can remove any job or document
(see the
.B \-a
option below).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-a
Use administrative privileges;
.I faxrm
will prompt for the password to set administrative privileges.
.TP 10
.B \-d
Interpret each
.I id
as a document pathname.
If a pathname does not begin with ``/'' then
.I faxrm
automatically prepends ``/docq/''.
.TP 10
.BI \-h " host"
Contact the server at the specified 
.IR host .
The
.I host
may be either a symbolic name or a network address.
If no server is specified then
If no
.B \-h
option is supplied,
.I faxrm
uses the
.SM FAXSERVER
environment variable to identify the \*(Fx server to contact.
If this variable is not set, then
.I faxrm
checks for a setting in the configuration files (first in the
per-user file and then in the system-wide file).
If all of the above fails, then
.I faxrm
attempts to contact a server on the machine where it is run.
.TP
.B \-v
Trace the protocol messages to and from the server.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.I faxrm
reads configuration information from the file
.B ${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf
and then from the file
.BR ~/.hylarc .
Configuration files follow the conventions described in
.IR hylafax-client (1).
The following configuration parameters are recognized:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'AutoConverPage    'u +\w'boolean    'u +\w'\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1    'u
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
Host	string	\s-1localhost\s+1	host to contact for service
Port	integer	\s-14559\s+1	port to use in contacting server
Protocol	string	\s-1tcp\s+1	protocol to use in contacting server
Verbose	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	whether or not to enable protocol tracing
.fi
.PP
The configuration parameters are explained below:
.TP 10
.B Host
The host to contact for service.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 10
.B Port
The network port to contact for service.
(Eqvuialent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 10
.B Protocol
The name of the communication protocol to use when contacting a server.
(Equivalent to the
.B FAXSERVICE
environment variable.)
.TP 10
.B Verbose
Control protocol tracing.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-v
option.)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B "Job %s removed." 
A confirmation that the job was successfully removed from the 
.B sendq
directory.
.PP
.B "Job %s removed (from doneq)." 
A confirmation that the job was successfully removed from the 
.B done
directory; the directory where jobs are placed once they are finished.
.PP
.B "%s removed." 
A confirmation that the document was successfully deleted from the server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxalter (1),
.IR faxstat (1),
.IR hfaxd (1M)
