.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXRCVD ${MANNUM1_8} "May 28, 2001"
.SH NAME
faxrcvd \- \*(Fx notification script for received facsimile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SPOOL}/bin/faxrcvd
.I qfile
.I devid
.I commid
.I error-msg
[
.I callid-1
[
.I callid-2
[
.I ...
[
.I callid-n
] ] ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bin/faxrcvd
is the command script invoked by the facsimile server whenever
a facsimile is received.
The default script sends electronic mail to the 
.I FaxMaster
user describing the content of the facsimile and other useful information
such as the time spent receiving the document.
The arguments are:
.TP 10
.B qfile
the pathname of the received 
.SM TIFF
file relative to the root of the spooling hierarchy.
.TP
.B devid
the modem device on which the facsimile was received.
.TP 
.B commid
the communication identifier for the inbound call.
.TP
.B error-msg
an error message that is non-null if an error was encountered
during the receive operation.
.TP
.B callid
the value of various identification indicators from the call
.SH NOTES
This script can route facsimile directly to the intended receipient.
To do this create a shell script
.B etc/FaxDispatch
in the spooling area that sets
.I SENDTO
to the receiver's electronic mail address.  For example,
.sp
.nf
.ft C
\s-1case "$SENDER" in
*1*510*526*1212*) SENDTO=sam;;          # Sam's test rig in Berkeley
*1*415*390*1212*) SENDTO=raster@asd;;   # 7L Xerox room, used for scanning
*5107811212)      SENDTO=peebles@mti;;  # stuff from home
esac
case "$DEVICE" in
ttyS1)            SENDTO=john;;         # all faxes received on ttyS1
ttyLT0)           SENDTO=mary@home;;    # all faxes received on ttyLT0
esac
case "$CIDNUMBER" in
435*)        SENDTO=lee; FILETYPE=pdf;; # all faxes from area code 435
5059627777)  SENDTO=amy; FILETYPE=tif;; # Amy wants faxes in TIFF
esac\s+1
case "$SUBADDR" in
53)          SENDTO=FaxMaster;;         # without double-notification
roger)       SENDTO=roger;;             # possible text subaddressing
esac\s+1
.ft R
.fi
.sp
Note that you must match any embedded white space.
The facsimile will be sent as a MIME-encoded PostScript document
as default.
.TP
.I CALLIDn
is equivalent to the nth call identification parameter
.TP
.I CIDNAME
is equivalent to
.B CALLID2
above.
.TP
.I CIDNUMBER
is equivalent to
.B CALLID1
above.
.TP
.I DEVICE
is equivalent to
.B device
above.
.TP
.I FILETYPE
controls the filetype of the image attachment.  Current
filetype options are ``ps'', ``tif'', and ``pdf''.
.TP
.I FROMADDR
controls the sender of the received fax notification.  It is
given as an e-mail address.
.TP
.I MSG
is equivalent to
.B error-msg
above.
.TP
.I NOTIFY_FAXMASTER
(an underscore ``_'' character is between NOTIFY and FAXMASTER)
indicates whether or not the HylaFAX administrator should be notified
regarding incoming facsimile.  Default is ``always''.  Also available are
``never'', which means to never send any received facsimile notification,
and ``errors'', which means to send notification only if there were
reception errors.
.TP
.I SENDER
is the received TSI of the fax sender.
.TP
.I SENDTO
controls the recipient of the received fax notification.  It is
given as an e-mail address.
.TP
.I SUBADDR
the received subaddress value, communicated by the sender for 
post-reception routing purposes
.TP
.I TEMPLATE
the template subdirectory to use when sending e-mails.  HylaFAX ships with
a base set of templates, and some direct translations.  To use the german
translated templates, set TEMPLATE=de in FaxDispatch.  This is relative to the
base template directory.
.TP
Other shell variables are available.  Consult the faxrcvd script directly.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/etc/templates    'u
${SPOOL}	spooling area
${SBIN}/faxinfo	for printing information about the facsimile
${TIFFBIN}/fax2ps	for converting \s-1TIFF\s+1 to PostScript
${SENDMAIL}	for delivering mail
${SPOOL}/etc/templates/	base directory for outgoing e-mail templates
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxd (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR recvq (${MANNUM4_5})
