.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXSTATE 1M "July 17, 1995"
.SH NAME
faxstate \- control ``modem state'' of a device used by \*(Fx
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxstate
[
.B \-q
.I queue-dir
] [
.B \-s
.I state
] [
.B \-n
]
.I modem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxstate
sends a message to the \*(Fx
.IR faxgetty (1M)
process servicing
.I modem
telling it to use the specified state when notifying the
\*(Fx scheduler that a modem is ready and available for use.
This is useful for controlling outbound use of a modem; by
marking a modem's state as 
.I busy
or
.I down
the \*(Fx scheduler will not assign any outbound jobs to the modem.
.PP
The specified
.I modem
can either be the name (typically the
last component of the terminal port the
modem is attached to), or the full name
of the associated 
.SM FIFO
named pipe file, e.g. ``\s-1FIFO\s+1.ttym2''.
.PP
If the
.B \-n
option, 
.I faxstate
emulates what 
.I faxgetty
would do; sending a message directly to the
.I faxq
process marking the specified modem down, busy, or ready.
This interface is useful for send-only environments in which
.I faxgetty
processes are not used.
Note that modems manipulated in this way must previously have
been configured with the
.IR faxmodem (1M)
program.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP 10
.B \-n
Contact
.I faxq
directly instead of
.IR faxgetty .
.TP 10
.BI \-q " dir"
Use a spooling area other than
.IR ${SPOOL} .
.TP 10
.B \-s
Specify the state to send the
.I faxq
process each time the modem becomes ready for use; one of ``\c
.IR busy '',
``\c
.IR down '',
and ``\c
.IR ready ''.
The default state to use is 
.IR ready .
.SH FILES
Consult
.IR hylafax-server (4F)
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-server (4F),
.IR faxgetty (1M)
