.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH FAXSETUP 1M "August 26, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxsetup \- setup a machine for use with \*(Fx
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/faxsetup
[
.B \-client
] [
.B \-server
] [
.BI \-with-VAR [=value]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxsetup
is an interactive shell script that does the
necessary setup work to configure a client or server machine
for the \*(Fx software.
.I faxsetup
must be run on every \*(Fx server machine before the software
will function\-if a \*(Fx server program or script is invoked before
.I faxsetup
is run, the command will abort with a message that says to run
.IR faxsetup .
.I faxsetup
may optionally be run on a \*(Fx client machine to verify the
configuration of the software.
.PP
By default
.I faxsetup
checks a machine for use both as a \*(Fx client and server.
Client-specific checks include:
.IP \(bu 3
the installation of client programs and data,
.IP \(bu 3
the installation of the Adobe Font Metric (\s-1AFM\s+1) information
files used by the \*(Fx text formatting support.
.LP
Server-specific checks include:
.IP \(bu 3
the installation of server programs and data,
.IP \(bu 3
the existence of the \s-1UUCP\s+1 lock file directory,
.IP \(bu 3
the installation of the \s-1TIFF\s+1 software tools,
.IP \(bu 3
the configuration of the getty programs invoked for data and voice calls,
.IP \(bu 3
the pathnames for various system programs used by server shell scripts,
.IP \(bu 3
proper support for \s-1FIFO\s+1 special files,
.IP \(bu 3
proper installation of a \*(Ps \s-1RIP\s+1,
.IP \(bu 3
definition of a ``fax'' user,
.IP \(bu 3
definitions for the ``hylafax'' and ``snpp'' services,
.IP \(bu 3
startup of the \*(Fx server processes:
.IR faxq (1M)
and
.IR hfaxd (1M),
.IP \(bu 3
definition of a ``FaxMaster'' mail alias for reporting server problems.
.PP
For server machines
.I faxsetup
also creates two files that are required by the \*(Fx command scripts.
One file contains master configuration parameters and the other
contains various definitions used by scripts such as
.IR faxaddmodem (1M)
that communicate with modems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-client
Do client-specific consistency checks.
.TP 10
.B \-server
Do server-specific consistency checks.
.TP 10
.BI \-with-VAR "[=value]"
Override the default definition for the configuration parameter named
.BR VAR ;
optionally specifying a new
.I value 
(if no value is specified then ``yes'' is used).
This option is especially useful to override the default settings
for the \*(Ps interpreter package to use (e.g. ``-with-PS=dps''),
the spooling directory (``-with-DIR_SPOOL=/mumble''), the 
directory where the tool applications of
.SM TIFF
software distribution are located (``-with-TIFFBIN=/usr/freeware''),
etc.
A complete list of the possible parameters can be found by looking
at the contents of the
.I faxsetup
shell script;
many of these configuration parameters are also
described in the
.SM HTML
documentation
.TP 10
.B \-help
Print a help message and terminate.
.TP 10
.B \-quiet
Do not print verbose messages to the terminal.
.TP 10
.B \-verbose
Print informative messages to the terminal (default).
.SH BUGS
.I faxsetup
does not query a modem to find out its capabilities when invoking the
.I faxmodem
program to setup a server in a send-only configuration; it may be
necessary to run
.I faxmodem
manually.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/etc/setup.modem    'u
.nf
${SPOOL}/etc/setup.cache	master configuration parameters
${SPOOL}/etc/setup.modem	modem-related configuration support
.fi
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax-server (4F)
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-server (4F),
.IR config (4F),
.IR faxq (1M),
.IR faxgetty (1M),
.IR faxmodem (1M),
.IR faxconfig (1M),
.IR faxsend (1M)
