.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH FAXSTAT 1 "July 9, 1996"
.SH NAME
faxstat \- display \*(Fx status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faxstat
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I faxstat
reports the status of \*(Fx servers, including (potentially)
the status of the send, receive, done, document, and archive directories.
When invoked without options
.I faxstat
reports only the status of the server; the options
described below can be used to override this behaviour.
.PP
Server status information indicates the state of the
server (idle, sending, receiving, etc.)
and the phone number that is associated with the fax modem.
.PP
The job queue report give the status of facsimile jobs
queued for transmission; by default:
.IP \(bu 3
the job identifier,
.IP \(bu 3
the job state (see below for the description of the
.B a
format in the
.B JobFmt
string),
.IP \(bu 3
the modem or modem class the job is bound to (``any'' if the job
can be sent though any modem),
.IP \(bu 3
the destination (phone number) of the job,
.IP \(bu 3
the time to send the job, or a blank field if the job is being
processed or is to be sent immediately,
.IP \(bu 3
the job's owner,
.IP \(bu 3
and status information about the job (typically the reason why
a previous attempt failed).
.PP
The receive queue report lists the facsimile documents
that have been received and are awaiting delivery; by default it
includes:
.IP \(bu 3
the document protection mode,
.IP \(bu 3
the number of pages,
.IP \(bu 3
the document's owner,
.IP \(bu 3
the phone number of the sender (if supplied),
.IP \(bu 3
the date and time at which the job was received, and
.IP \(bu 3
the filename of the document in the \fBrecvq\fP
directory on the server machine.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-a
Display the contents of the
.B archive
directory on the server machine
.TP 10
.B \-d
Display the status of all jobs that have completed; i.e. those
jobs located in the
.B doneq
directory on the server machine.
The
.B JobFmt
string defines the content and format of information reported with
this option.
.TP 10
.B \-f
Display the status of document files located in the
.B docq
directory on the server machine.
The
.B FileFmt
string defines the content and format of information reported with
this option (see below).
.TP 10
.B \-g
Display times and dates in 
Greenwich Mean Time (\s-1GMT\s+1).
NB: \fIthis is the default\fP.
.TP 10
.BI \-h " host"
Report the status of the server on a specific
.IR host .
The
.I host
may be either a symbolic name or a network address.
If no
.B \-h
option is supplied,
.I faxstat
uses the
.SM FAXSERVER
environment variable to identify the \*(Fx server to contact.
If this variable is not set, then
.I faxstat
checks for a setting in the configuration files (first in the
per-user file and then in the system-wide file).
If all of the above fails, then
.I faxstat
attempts to contact a server on the machine where it is run.
.TP 10
.B \-i
Display additional status information for the server
as given by
.B ${SPOOL}/status/any.info.
This status typically has information such as the \*(Fx
version, the physical location of the server machine, and
an administrative contact for the server.  See \fIstatus\fP\|(${MANNUM4_5}).
.TP 10
.B \-l
Display times and dates in the local timezone of the server.
.TP 10
.B \-r
Display the receive queue status for each server.
The
.B RcvFmt
string defines the content and format of information reported with
this option (see below).
.TP 10
.B \-s
Display the status of jobs in the send queue on the server machine.
The
.B JobFmt
string defines the content and format of information reported with
this option (see below).
.TP 10
.B \-v
Trace the protocol exchanges between
.I faxstat
and the
.I hfaxd
processes on the standard output.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.I faxstat
reads configuration information from the file
.B ${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf
and then from the file
.BR ~/.hylarc .
Configuration files follow the conventions described in
.IR hylafax-client (1).
The following configuration parameters are recognized:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'AutoCoverPage    'u +\w'boolean    'u +\w'\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1    'u
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
FileFmt	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	format string for file status results
Host	string	\s-1localhost\s+1	host to contact for service
JobFmt	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	format string for job status results
ModemFmt	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	format string for modem status results
Port	integer	\s-14559\s+1	port to use in contacting server
Protocol	string	\s-1tcp\s+1	protocol to use in contacting server
RcvFmt	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	format string for received facsimile status results
TimeZone	string	\s-1GMT\s+1	timezone to use for reporting dates and times
Verbose	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	whether or not to enable protocol tracing
.fi
.PP
The configuration parameters are explained below:
.TP 14
.B FileFmt
The format string to use when returning file status information with the
.B \-f
option.
Formats are specified using 
.IR printf (3S)-\c
style conventions but using the field identifiers listed below.
Each item can include field width, precision, left-justification,
0-filling, etc. just as for 
.IR printf ;
e.g. %-8p for an 8-character wide, left-justified, blank-padded
field containing the file protection flags.
.IP
.nf
.ta \w'Format    'u +\w'Description    'u
\fBFormat	Description\fP
a	Last access time
c	Creation time
d	Device number (octal)
f	Filename
g	Group identifier (decimal)
i	Inode number (decimal)
l	Link count (decimal)
m	Last modification time
o	Owner (based on file \s-1GID\s+1)
p	Fax-style protection flags (no group bits)
q	\s-1UNIX\s+1-style protection flags
r	Root device number (octal)
s	File size in bytes (decimal)
u	User identifier (decimal)
.fi
.TP 14
.B Host
The host to contact for service.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 14
.B JobFmt
The format string to use when returning job status information for
the
.B \-s
and
.B \-d
options.
Formats are specified using 
.IR printf (3S)-\c
style conventions but using the field identifiers listed below.
Each item can include field width, precision, left-justification,
0-filling, etc. just as for 
.IR printf ;
e.g. %-3j for a 3-character wide, left-justified, blank-padded
field containing the job state.
.IP
.nf
.ta \w'Format    'u +\w'Description    'u
\fBFormat	Description\fP
A	Destination SubAddress
B	Destination Password
C	Destination company name
D	Total # dials/maximum # dials
E	Desired signalling rate
F	Client-specific tagline format string
G	Desired min-scanline time
H	Desired data format
I	Client-specified scheduling priority
J	Client-specified job tag string
K	Desired use of ECM (one-character symbol)
L	Destination geographic location
M	Notification e-mail address
N	Desired use of private tagline (one-character symbol)
O	Whether to use continuation cover page (one-character symbol)
P	# pages transmitted/total # pages to transmit
Q	Client-specified minimum acceptable signalling rate
R	Destination person (receiver)
S	Sender's identity
T	Total # tries/maximum # tries
U	Page chopping threshold (inches)
V	Job done operation
W	Communication identifier
X	Job type (one-character symbol)
Y	Scheduled date and time
Z	Scheduled time in seconds since the UNIX epoch
a	Job state (one-character symbol)
b	# consecutive failed tries
c	Client machine name
d	Total # dials
e	Public (external) format of dialstring
f	# consecutive failed dials
g	Group identifier
h	Page chop handling (one-character symbol)
i	Current scheduling priority
j	Job identifier
k	Job kill time
l	Page length in mm
m	Assigned modem
n	E-mail notification handling (one-character symbol)
o	Job owner
p	# pages transmitted
q	Job retry time (MM::SS)
r	Document resolution in lines/inch
s	Job status information from last failure
t	Total # tries attempted
u	Maximum # tries
v	Client-specified dialstring
w	Page width in mm
x	Maximum # dials
y	Total # pages to transmit
z	Time to send job
.fi
.IP
The
.B K
format produces:
``D'' if ECM is to be disabled,
`` '' (space) if ECM use is enabled,
``H'' if T.30 Annex C half duplex is enabled,
or
``F'' if T.30 Annex C full duplex is enabled.
.IP
The
.B N
format produces:
`` '' (space) if the system-wide tagline format is to be used
or
``P'' if a private tagline format is to be used.
.IP
The
.B O
format produces:
``N'' if no continuation cover page is to be used
or
`` '' (space) if the system default handling for continuation cover pages
is to be used.
.IP
The
.B X
format produces:
``F'' for a facsimile job
or
``P'' for a pager job.
.IP
The
.B a
format produces:
``?'' for a job in an undefined state,
``T'' for a suspended job (not being scheduled),
``P'' for a pending job (waiting for its time to send to arrive),
``S'' for a sleeping job (waiting for a scheduled timeout such as a delay between attempts to send),
``B'' for a job blocked by concurrent activity to the same destination,
``W'' for a job waiting for resources such as a free modem,
``R'' for a job that is actively running,
and
``D'' for a job that is done and was a success.
``F'' for a job that failed to complete.
.IP
The
.B h
format produces:
``D'' if page chopping is disabled,
`` '' (space) for the system default page chop handling,
``A'' when all pages are to be chopped,
or
``L'' if only the last page is to be chopped.
.IP
The
.B n
format produces:
`` '' (space) when no notification messages are to be delivered,
``D'' when notification is to be sent when the job is done,
``Q'' when notification is to be sent each time the job is requeued,
or
``A'' when notification is to be sent for either the job completing
or being requeued.
.IP
It is recommended that all items include a field width so that
the width of column title strings can be constrained
when constructing headers from the format string.
.TP 14
.B ModemFmt
The format string to use when returning modem status information.
Formats are specified using 
.IR printf (3S)-\c
style conventions but using the field identifiers listed below.
Each item can include field width, precision, left-justification,
0-filling, etc. just as for 
.IR printf ;
e.g. %-8h for an 8-character wide, left-justified, blank-padded
field containing the name of the host the server is running on.
.IP
.nf
.ta \w'Format    'u +\w'Description    'u
\fBFormat	Description\fP
h	Server hostname
l	Local identifier string
m	Canonical modem name
n	FAX phone number
r	Maximum pages that can be received in a single call
s	Status information string
t	Server and session tracing levels (xxxxx:yyyyy)
v	Modem speaker volume as one-character symbol
z	A ``*'' if a \fIfaxgetty\fP\|(${MANNUM1_8}) process is running; otherwise `` '' (space)
.fi
.TP 14
.B Port
The network port to contact for service.
(Eqvuialent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 14
.B Protocol
The name of the communication protocol to use when contacting a server.
(Equivalent to the
.B FAXSERVICE
environment variable.)
.TP 14
.B RcvFmt
The format string to use when returning status information for the
.B \-r
option.
Formats are specified using 
.IR printf (3S)-\c
style conventions but using the field identifiers listed below.
Each item can include field width, precision, left-justification,
0-filling, etc. just as for 
.IR printf ;
e.g. %-3b for a 3-character wide, left-justified, blank-padded
field containing the signalling rate.
.IP
.nf
.ta \w'Format    'u +\w'Description    'u
\fBFormat	Description\fP
Y	Extended representation of the time when the receive happened
a	SubAddress received from sender (if any)
b	Signalling rate used during receive
d	Data format used during receive
e	Error description if an error occurred during receive
f	Document filename (relative to the \fBrecvq\fP directory)
h	Time spent receiving document (HH:MM:SS)
l	Page length in mm
m	Fax-style protection mode string (``-rwxrwx'')
n	File size (number of bytes)
o	File owner
p	Number of pages in document
q	\s-1UNIX\s+1-style protection flags
r	Resolution of received data
s	Sender identity (\s-1TSI\s+1)
t	Compact representation of the time when the receive happened
w	Page width in mm
z	A ``*'' if receive is going on; otherwise `` '' (space)
.fi
.IP
It is recommended that all items include a field width so that
the width of column title strings can be constrained
when constructing headers from the format string.
.TP 14
.B TimeZone
Control whether times and dates are reported in the local
timezone of the server (``local'') or in GMT (``gmt'').
By default times are reported in GMT.
.TP 14
.B Verbose
Control protocol tracing.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-v
option.)
.SH BUGS
There is no way to suppress the server status report.
There is no way to control the printing of headers.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf    'u
.nf
${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf	system-wide configuration file
~/.hylarc	per-user configuration file
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxalter (1),
.IR faxrm (1),
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8})
