.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH HOSTS 4F "January 18, 1996"
.SH NAME
hosts.hfaxd \- \*(Fx client access control list
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.SM ASCII
file
.B etc/hosts.hfaxd
in the \*(Fx spooling area specifies the
hosts and users that are permitted to access services through the
.IR hfaxd (1M)
process.
This file must exist for client access; if it is not present then
.I hfaxd
will deny all requests for service.
Note also that this file must be readable only by the ``fax'' user; i.e.
it should have mode 600 and be owned by ``fax''.
.PP
Each newline-terminated entry is a set of colon (:) separated fields,
all but the first of which are optional.
Trailing null fields and their separators may be omitted.
The most general form is:
.sp
.ti +.5i
client:uid:passwd:adminwd
.sp
.I client
is a regular expression to be matched against a string
``\fIuser\fP@\fIhost\fP'' that is formed from the
.I user
string passed to
.I hfaxd
with the
.B USER
command and the official
.I host
name or the
.SM DARPA
Internet address, specified in ``dot notation''.
If
.I client
does not contain an ``@'' then, for backwards compatibility,
it is treated as a host for which any user may have access;
i.e. it is automatically converted to the regular expression
``^.*@\fIclient\fP$''.
.PP
Comments are introduced with the ``#'' character and extend
to the end of the line.
Any whitespace immediately preceding a comment is also ignored.
.PP
If 
.I client
has a leading ``!'', then it is interpreted as a class of
hosts and users to which access is to be
.BR disallowed .
That is, if the pattern matches the client information,
then access is denied.
.PP
Note that regular expressions are 
.B not
anchored.
That is, a regular expression may match a substring
of the ``\fIuser\fP@\fIhost\fP'' string.
Thus `\fIpb\fP@\fI.*\e.cl\e.cam\e.ac\e.uk\fP' matches
`\fIcpb\fP@\fImc.cl.cam.ac.uk.esd.sgi.com\fP'.
Use ``^'' to match the start of the string and ``$'' to
match the end.
.PP
Fields following 
.I client
are optional and specify the following:
.TP 10
.B uid
The numerical user ID to assign to clients that use the entry
for access.
.I hfaxd
uses the 
.I uid
to control access to server resources such as jobs and documents
(the value is used to set the group ID of files created by a client).
.IP
Multiple clients/users may share the same 
.I uid
or unique IDs may be created for each client.
User IDs may be any number in the range [0..6002]
with 6002 used, by convention, for entries that do not have a
.I uid
specified.
.TP 10
.B passwd
The encrypted password.
If this field is empty (null) then no password will be demanded when
a client logs in; i.e. the
.B USER
command does not need to be followed by a
.B PASS
command.
.TP 10
.B adminwd
The encrypted password for this user to gain administrative privileges.
If this field is empty (null) then the user is not permitted to have
administrative privileges.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is a sample hosts.hfaxd file.
Note that the first entry that matches
is taken, so more-specific entries should be placed first.
.sp .3
.nf
.RS
.ft C
.ta \w'^sam@oxford.*Berkeley.*'u
^pb@[^.]*\e.cl\e.cam\e.ac\e.uk$:::hFy8zXq2KaG8s
	# pb on a machine directly in cl.cam.ac.uk can
	# administer if an admin pw is given
127.0.0.1	# anyone on local host uses the default uid
^sam@flake.*sgi\e.com$	# Sam on his work machine
^sam@oxford.*Berkeley.*	# Sam on any machine starting oxford and containing
	# Berkeley, e.g. sam@oxfordberkeley.cl.cam.ac.uk
^\&.*@.*.\e.esd\e.	# anyone in an esd domain
!^tom@	# Tom Davis is denied access
\&.*\e.sgi\e.com$	# but anyone else at sgi is ok
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR hfaxd (1M),
.IR hylafax-server (4F)
