.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH HYLAFAX-INFO ${MANNUM4_5} "February 10, 1996"
.SH NAME
info \- remote device capability database
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B info
subdirectory in the \*(Fx
spooling area holds information about the capabilities
and status of devices that have been called.
One file exists for each device, with the filename
created from the remote device's fully-qualified
phone number.
Files have a simple
.SM ASCII
format.
Each line is of the form
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
[\fB&\fP]\fBtag\fP: \fIvalue\fP
.br
.sp .5
where a \fItag\fP identifies a capability and a \fIvalue\fP
is either a string, number, or boolean value.
An optional ``&'' at the front of the line indicates that the
tag's value is
.I "locked down"
and should not be updated by the server.
This facility is useful for restricting the capabilities used
with a particular machine.
.PP
The following items are recorded:
.RS
.sp .5
.ta \w'supports2DEncoding    'u +\w'boolean    'u
.nf
\fBTag	Type	Description\fP
calledBefore	boolean	device has previously answered at this number
dialFailures	number	count of consecutive failed dial operations
hasV34Trouble	boolean	there is difficulty sending to this destination with V.34
lastDialFailure	string	reason for last failed dial operation
lastSendFailure	string	reason for last failed send attempt
maxPageWidth	number	maximum page width in pixels in normal resolution
maxPageLength	number	maximum page length in millimeters
maxSignallingRate	string	maximum signalling rate (bits/sec) to use
minScanlineTime	string	minimum scanline time
pagerMaxMsgLength	number	length of longest allowed text message
pagerPassword	string	password string send to service provider
pagerSetupCmds	string	commands for setting up modem for a specific service provider
pagerTTYParity	string	parity & # bits configuration for IXO/TAP communication
pageSource	string	parameter to tell the paging central who we are
pagingProtocol	string	protocol (IXO or UCP) for this provider
remoteCSI	string	remote device Called Subscriber Identification
sendFailures	number	count of consecutive failed send attempts
supportsHighRes	boolean	accepts 196 line/inch images (obsolete)
supportsVRes	number	vertical resolution support bitmask
supports2DEncoding	boolean	accepts Group 3 2D encoding
supportsMMR	boolean	accepts Group 4 encoding
supportsPostScript	boolean	accepts Adobe \*(Ps transfer protocol
.fi
.RE
.PP
The \*(Fx scheduler,
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
uses the information stored in this directory when
deciding if a call should be placed and when
preparing documents for transmission.
If a remote device's capabilities are known, then
document preparation is constrained and/or optimized
according to the capabilities.
Otherwise, documents are prepared without regard for
the remote device's capabilities and if a capability mismatch
is encountered the session is terminated and the documents
are reformatted using the newly discovered capabilities.
.PP
The
.I calledBefore
item is used by 
.I faxsend
to decide whether or not to redial a phone number
when encountering certain errors.
For example, if a dialing command results in a ``\s-1NO CARRIER\s+1''
result, then the number will not be retried unless
the number has previously been dialed successfully.
.PP
The
.I minScanlineTime
item indicates the minimum scanline time parameter
used for facsimile transmissions.
Acceptable values are:
``0ms'',
``5ms'',
``10ms/5ms'',
``10ms'',
``20ms/10ms'',
``20ms'',
``40ms/20ms'',
and
``40ms''.
(Values of the form 
.I X/Y
mean to use 
.I X
for 98 lpi images and 
.I Y
for 196 lpi images.)
.PP
The
.I pagerTTYParity
item specifies the communication parameters to use when communicating
with the
.SM IXO/TAP
service provider.
Acceptable values are:
``even'' (7 bits, even parity),
``odd'' (7 bits, odd parity),
and
``none'' (8 bits, no parity).
If nothing is specified then ``even'' is used per the standard.
.PP
The
.IR pagerMaxMsgLength ,
.IR pagerPassword ,
and
.I pagerTTYParity
items can be setup according to the requirements of a pager
service provider; they typically are locked down so that their
values are not lost during updates.
.PP
The
.IR pagerSetupCmds
can be used to define AT commands for setting up the modem
for a specific service provider.
This value overwrites the settings defined in
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5}).
.PP
The
.IR pageSource
parameter can be used to tell the paging central who we are.
It usually contains a SMS answerable mobile number. It is only
used for the \s-1UCP\s+1 part of
.IR sendpage (${MANNUM1_8}).
\fBNote: \fR This parameter should be used from user-land
.IR sendpage (1)
and will be removed later.
.PP
The
.IR pagingProtocol
defines which protocol, \s-1UCP\s+1 or \s-1IXO\s+1, should
be used to send the message to the service provider. It
defaults to ``ixo''; for \s-1UCP\s+1 set ``ucp''.
.SH NOTES
.IR faxsend ,
.IR pagesend ,
and
.I faxq
automatically create and update entries in the
.B info
directory, as required.
.PP
The data in this directory is simply a
.I cache
of remote capabilities and, except for locked down items, can be
safely purged at any time.
The
.IR faxcron (${MANNUM1_8})
script, for example, periodically purges unlocked entries in this
directory that have not been accessed in 30 days.
.PP
Restricting the capabilities used with a particular machine to a value
other than those that are mandatory can cause documents to be sent
outside of an acceptable range for the receiver.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxcron (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxsend (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR pagesend (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-config (${MANNUM4_5})
