.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.ds Pc \s-1PCL\s+1
.TH HYLAFAX-SERVER ${MANNUM4_5} "January 18, 1996"
.SH NAME
HylaFAX \- introduction to \*(Fx server operation and file formats
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Fx is a system for sending and receiving facsimile.
It supports queued transmission and asynchronous 
reception of facsimile.
Ancillary programs are invoked by
the system for flexibility
and configurability.
\*(Fx includes client and server programs to
support remote submission of jobs for transmission,
remote removal of queued jobs, and to remotely
query the status of jobs queued for transmission.
This document describes the organization of the 
filesystem spooling area in which \*(Fx
server and server-related processes operate, and
introduces the various files that reside in the spooling area.
.SH OVERVIEW
The spooling area is typically located under the
directory
.IR ${SPOOL} .
Ancillary command scripts used by the server programs
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxsend (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR pagesend (${MANNUM1_8}),
and
.IR faxgetty (${MANNUM1_8})
are located in the 
.B bin
subdirectory.
Configuration, access control, and accounting
information are maintained in the
.B etc
and
.B config
subdirectories.
Outgoing jobs are described by files in the
.B sendq
subdirectory, while received facsimile are deposited in the
.B recvq
subdirectory.
The
.B docq
and
.B temp
subdirectories are also used in the preparation of outbound jobs;
the latter holds files that may be freely purged while the former
holds client files that may reside on the server independent of
an associated job.
The
.B doneq
subdirectory holds jobs that have completed but have not yet been
purged or archived.
On systems with job archival support, completed jobs that have
been archived are placed in the
.B archive
subdirectory.
The
.B pollq
subdirectory holds documents that are available for polled
retrieval from the server.
The
.B info
subdirectory contains files that describe the capabilities
of facsimile machines that \*(Fx has called\-\c
this information is used in preparing documents for transmission.
The
.B status
subdirectory contains files that server processes write their
current status to.
The
.B log
subdirectory contains logging information about send and
receive sessions.
The
.B client
subdirectory contains 
.SM FIFO
special files used for communication with
.IR faxq .
.PP
\*(Fx supports multiple modems on a host.
A single process acts as central queueing agent for all outbound jobs.
Typically each modem also has a server process
that monitors the modem status and handles inbound phone calls.
Per-modem server processes communicate with the central queueing
agent using 
.SM FIFO
special files; see
.IR mknod (2)
or
.IR mkfifo (2).
Any other synchronization between server processes
is done using file-level locking.
The
.I faxq
process listens for commands written to the file named
.BR FIFO ,
while each
.I faxgetty
process listens for commands written to a per-device file named
.BI FIFO .devid
(where
.I devid
is an identifier derived from the name of the device
special file to which the modem is connected; e.g.
.I ttym2
for
.IR /dev/ttym2 ,
.I term_10
for
.IR /dev/term/10 .)
To send a command to the queueing agent, one writes to
.BR FIFO .
This is useful, for example, for submitting a job for
transmission.
To send a command to a specific 
.I faxgetty
process, the
.BI FIFO .devid
file is used.
.PP
Client applications interact with a \*(Fx server machine using
a communications protocol implemented by the
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8})
program.
The
.I hfaxd
program is typically started at system startup; it listens for
client requests for service and creates a process for each client.
.I hfaxd
supports the submission of outbound jobs, querying the status
of the send and receive queues, and altering parameters of
previously submitted jobs.
The
.I hfaxd
processes communicate with the
.I faxq
process through
.SM FIFO
special files.
Commands sent to
.I faxq
are sent to
.B FIFO
and responses are received on
.SM FIFO
files that each
.I hfaxd
creates in the
.B client
subdirectory.
.SH SETUP
Each \*(Fx server machine must run the
.IR faxsetup (${MANNUM1_8})
command prior to starting up \*(Fx server processes.
.I faxsetup
verifys that the \*(Fx software has been installed correctly
and that any parameters that were specified at the time the software
was built are appropriate for the system.
.SH SENDING
Each outgoing facsimile job has a job description file
that is located in the
.B sendq
subdirectory.
This file contains all the information necessary to
manage the transmission; c.f.
.IR sendq (${MANNUM4_5}).
The actual documents that are to be sent are usually located
in the
.B docq
subdirectory (though it is also possible to reference documents
from the
.B recvq
directory).
\*(Fx accepts \*(Ps, PDF, \*(Pc, and
.SM TIFF
documents for transmission (though support for
\*(Pc documents is not currently implemented).
Documents are automatically converted to 
.SM TIFF/F
documents prior to transmission according to the capabilities
of the remote facsimile machine: maximum page width
and length, ability to handle 2D-encoded data, and ability
to handle high resolution (7 line/mm) data.
This remote machine capability information is stored
in files in the
.B info
subdirectory.
If a machine has not been called before,
\*(Fx assumes the remote machine has the requested capabilities.
If a capabilities mismatch is detected while sending a facsimile
\*(Fx will disconnect and reconvert the submitted documents according
to the newly discovered capabilities.
Users may also restrict the session parameters used to format
documents on a per-job basis.
.PP
The actual transmission is handled by a
.IR faxsend (${MANNUM1_8})
process that is initiated by the scheduler.
This program may be substituted for by specifying the
.B FaxSendCmd
configuration parameter in the
.I faxq
configuration file.
.PP
While a job is being processed by a server process,
its job description file is locked for exclusive
use with
.IR flock (2).
The
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8})
program uses this information to tell if a job is actively being processed.
.PP
If the
.B SessionTracing
parameter in a server's configuration file is non-zero,
then tracing information for an outgoing job will be logged
in a file in the
.B log
subdirectory.
Each destination machine has a separate log file named
by its canonical phone number.
.PP
The remote job submission facility includes host and user
access control.
The file
.B etc/hosts.hfaxd
must be present and list those hosts and users that are
permitted to queue jobs for transmission or do other operations
that alter the status of a job.
Note that it is necessary to include the ``local host''
definition (usually 127.0.0.1) if local submission
is to be permitted.
For more information consult
.IR hosts.hfaxd (${MANNUM4_5}).
.PP
There are a number of controls on outbound calls that can be
specified using the
.B etc/destcontrols
file (or whatever file is specified in a
.B DestControls
configuration parameter in the
.I faxq
configuration file).
This file, described in
.IR destctrls (${MANNUM4_5}),
allows an administrator to restrict calls by phone number
and to control the time of day that calls may be placed.
In addition, operational parameters such as the maximum number
of pages in a facsimile transmission can be constrained
on a per-destination basis.
.PP
If an error is encountered during transmission and a subsequent
retransmission would not include the original cover page, then
\*(Fx can be configured to generate a
.I "continuation cover page"
that is prepended to the retransmitted pages.
Such cover pages are usually generated by the
.B bin/mkcover
command; though the exact command to use can be specified in the 
configuration file read by
.IR faxq .
.PP
\*(Fx can be configured to generate a line of status information
across the top of each page of an outbound facsimile.
This information, termed a ``tagline'', typically includes the
sender's identity (i.e. phone number), the time and date of the
transmission, and the page number.
The exact format of the tagline is configurable and applications
can override the default configuration parameters on a per-job basis.
Note that in the United States the law
requires that a tagline that identifies the sender's phone number
must appear on each transmitted page of facsimile.
.PP
Facsimile transmitted to receivers that accept variable-length pages
may have short pages ``\fIchopped\fP''.
That is, if a page has a significant amount of trailing whitespace
and the receiver accepts variable-length pages then only the top
part of the page will be transmitted.
.I faxq
can be configured so that only the last page of
each document is potentially chopped, all pages are potentially
chopped, or chopping is disabled.
The minimum whitespace threshold is also configurable.
Applications can override the default configuration parameters
on a per-job basis.
.SH RECEIVING
.I faxgetty
server processes can be configured to answer incoming
phone calls and automatically receive facsimile.
Received documents are placed in the
.B recvq
subdirectory as
.SM TIFF
Class F files.
The 
.I faxgetty
processes can be configured to make these files publicly
accessible, or they can be made private in which case
an administrator must manage their delivery and/or the assignment
of ownership to particular users.
When a facsimile is received, the 
.I faxgetty
process usually invokes the
.B bin/faxrcvd
command; though the exact command to invoke can be specified
in the per-modem configuration file.
The default
.I notify
command is a shell script that sends a mail
message to a well known user, the
.IR FaxMaster ,
but one might also, for example, automatically spool the
document for printing.
.PP
\*(Fx supports a simple form of access control for receiving facsimile.
Each
.I faxgetty
process may be configured to check the
Transmission Subscriber Identifiers (\s-1TSI\s+1)
of the remote fax machine against an access control list, typically
.BR etc/tsi .
Only if the 
.SM TSI
is matched by a regular expression pattern in the file,
is the remote machine permitted to transmit a document.
This mechanism can be used, for example, to guard against
.IR "junk fax" .
.PP
\*(Fx can be configured to do
.I "copy quality checking"
on received facsimile data.
When this feature is enabled 
.I faxgetty
decodes and analyzes the received facsimile data as it is received.
If data is received with too many errors, according to the setting
of the
.B MaxConsecutiveBadLines
and
.B PercentGoodLines
configuration parameters, then the sender will be told to retransmit
the page.
When copy quality checking is enabled it is also possible to force
received facsimile data to be saved with a different compression
scheme than was used for transmission.
This function is known as
.I transcoding
and can significantly reduce the space needed to store received facsimile.
.SH POLLING
\*(Fx supports the polled retrieval of facsimile documents.
Documents that are received because of a poll request are
stored in the
.B recvq
subdirectory and also delivered directly to the requester using the
.B bin/pollrcvd
command; though the exact command to invoke can be specified
with the
.B PollRcvdCmd
configuration parameter.
The
.B pollrcvd
script typically encodes the binary facsimile data and
returns it to the user via electronic mail.
.SH "INBOUND CALL HANDLING"
In environments where Caller-ID information is available,
\*(Fx also supports a call screening facility similar to the
.SM TSI
access control facility.
.I faxgetty
can be configured to check the phone number of each caller
against an access control list, typically
.BR etc/cid .
Only if the number is matched by a regular expression pattern
in the file is the call answered.
All Caller ID information is logged, irregardless of whether
or not it is used to screen incoming calls.
.PP
.I faxgetty
is also capable of using \fIdistinctive ring\fP information
to identify whether an inbound call is voice, data, or fax.
Consult the 
.BR RingData ,
.BR RingFax ,
and
.B RingVoice
parameters in
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5})
for a description of this facility.
.SH "DATA CALLS"
Most fax modems also support non-facsimile communication.
\*(Fx uses the locking mechanism employed by
.IR uucp (1C),
.IR cu (1C),
.IR slip (${MANNUM1_8}),
and
.IR ppp (${MANNUM1_8}).
Any
.I faxgetty
processes will transparently ``get out of the way''
when an application wants to use a modem for an outgoing call.
In addition, \*(Fx can be configured to deduce whether an incoming
call is for facsimile or data use.
If a call from a data modem is recognized and the
.B GettyArgs
parameter is specified in the configuration file,
.I faxgetty
will invoke the
.IR getty (${MANNUM1_8})
program so that caller may login to the system.
Similar functionality is also available for invoking
a ``voice getty'' process, though auto-detection of inbound
voice calls is less extensive.
.SH STATUS
\*(Fx maintains status information in several forms.
General status information for each server process is maintained
in the
.B status
subdirectory and returned to users by the
.IR faxstat (1)
program.
The
.IR syslog (3)
facility is used by all server processed
for logging status and error diagnostics.
The server processes may also be configured to log various
kinds of debugging and tracing information; c.f.
the
.B ServerTracing
parameter description in
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5}).
.PP
Any problems encountered when transmitting a facsimile
are described in messages returned to the user by electronic mail.
A user may also request notification by mail when a
job is requeued; for example, because a call failed.
Notification by electronic mail is implemented by the
.B bin/notify
command script; though the name of the script may be overridden
with the
.B NotifyCmd
configuration parameter.
.PP
The
.IR faxstat
utility provides (remote) status of jobs queued
for transmission, jobs received, and the general
status of server processes.
.PP
The file
.B etc/xferfaxlog
contains status information about all facsimile sent and
received on a machine.
This file is in a simple
.SM ASCII
format that is easy to manipulate with programs such as
.IR awk (1),
to generate accounting information.
See
.IR xferfaxlog (${MANNUM4_5})
for information about the format.
See
.IR xferfaxstats (${MANNUM1_8})
and
.IR recvstats (${MANNUM1_8})
for example scripts that print summarized accounting information.
.PP
Finally, the
.I hfaxd
process supports a event monitoring facility that can be
access via the
.IR faxwatch (${MANNUM1_8})
program.
This facility permits clients to register interest in various
events and receive ``realtime notification'' when such events occur
on the server.
Using this facility it is/should-be simple to construct applications
that do things like monitor modem status and use.
.SH "MODEM STATE CHANGES"
In normal operation each modem is managed by a \*(Fx server
process such as
.IR faxgetty .
These processes communicate with the central scheduler process
to notify it when a modem is ready for use, busy for outbound use,
or possibly in an unusable state (either purposely marked unavailable
or potentially found to be wedged).
Modem usage can be explicitly controlled with the
.IR faxstate (${MANNUM1_8})
program.
The
.IR faxconfig (${MANNUM1_8})
program can also be used to dynamically make changes to configuration
parameters that may cause a modem to be treated differently (e.g.
setting
.B RingsBeforeAnswer
to zero will cause 
.I faxgetty
to not answer incoming calls).
.PP
When \*(Fx is used in a send-only configuration there are no
.I faxgetty
processes and communication must be done directly with the
.I faxq
process.
The
.I faxstate 
program can still be used to manipulate modem use for outbound
jobs but the
.I faxconfig
program is not frequently needed.
.SH "JOB SCHEDULING"
Outbound jobs are scheduled by a single process.
Jobs have a ``scheduling priority'' that is assigned at the
time the job is submitted.
This priority can be changed at any time the job is not actively
being processed using the
.IR faxalter (${MANNUM1_8})
program.
A job's scheduling priority may also be raised by
.I faxq
in response to certain scheduling events (e.g. after a failed
attempt to send the priority may be raised).
.PP
Modems are assigned to outbound jobs if they are deemed ready
for use.
Modem readiness is usually communicated to
.I faxq
by per-modem
.I faxgetty
processes.
In a send-only environment however this is not possible; instead
modems configured for use with
.I faxmodem
are considered always ready for use unless they are presently
assigned to an outbound job or their state is explicitly
changed through the
.IR faxstate (${MANNUM1_8})
program (\c
.I faxstate
can also be used in a send-recv environment).
.PP
Each modem has a ``modem priority'' in the range [0..255].
Modems with a lower priority number are assigned to outbound
jobs first.
Modem priority is statically configured through configuration
files, the
.I faxmodem
program, and the
.I faxconfig
program.  If multiple modems share the same priority value,
then
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8})
will allocate jobs to them in a round-robin 
fashon.
.SH "JOB MANAGEMENT"
Outbound jobs are considered to be in one of several states
that reflect their treatment by the central scheduling process.
Jobs are initially created in a
.I suspended
state, and may be returned to this state at any time that they
are not actively being processed (e.g. a
.I faxsend
program is running to process the job).
Jobs that are suspended are not processed by the scheduler; and their
internal state may be safely altered by the owner or a system
administrator.
Jobs that are ready for processing by the scheduler are ``submitted''
and their state is changed to be either 
.I pending
(delayed waiting for a future time to send),
.I sleeping
(delayed waiting for a scheduled timeout),
.I blocked
(delayed by concurrent activity to the same destination),
or
.I ready
(ready for transmission, waiting only for available resources).
When a job is actively processed by the
.I faxsend
program its state is marked
.IR active .
Jobs that have completed, either successfully or unsuccessfully are
placed in a
.I done
state and their job description files are moved to the
.B doneq
subdirectory.
Clients may still access the state of jobs that are done; until a
``cleaner process'' either purges them from the system or archives
their state.
This delayed removal of a completed job's state permits clients to
resubmit failed jobs using previously transmitted documents and other
job state information.
The exact mechanics of how and when done jobs are processed is
system-dependent; for example, how long a job is left in the done
queue before being purged, and whether job archival support is present.
.SH CONFIGURATION
\*(Fx server programs read configuration information from a
configuration file.
Multiple files are used, one for the
.I faxq
program and one for each modem.
Long-running server programs all automatically re-read their
configuration file if it is modified.
Typically this re-reading is done frequently enough that
administrators do not need to be aware of exactly when it takes place.
However in some esoteric cases the file may not be read when
expected (the one important case is that the
.I faxgetty
process reads its configuration file only when answering a
call or when resetting a modem; this means that
it will not recognize changes when the modem is idle).
.PP
In addition to the static configuration files, \*(Fx server
programs accept commands on their 
.SM FIFO
special files to alter configuration parameters in the running
executable
(the
.IR faxconfig (${MANNUM1_8})
program can be used to dynamically change configuration parameters).
Values set in this way however are lost when the process exits
or if the configuration file is re-read.
.SH NOTES
Automatic routing of incoming facsimile is desirable.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'etc/config.<devid>    'u
FIFO	fifo for job submission
FIFO.<devid>	fifo for communicating with a faxgetty process
${SBIN}/faxinfo	command that prints information about received facsimile
${SBIN}/faxquit	command to force server to quit
bin/faxrcvd	faxd command for handling newly received facsimile
bin/mkcover	faxd command for generating continuation cover pages
bin/notify	faxd command for doing user notification
bin/pollrcvd	faxd command for delivering facsimile received by poll
bin/ps2fax	faxd command for converting \*(Ps to \s-1TIFF\s+1
docq/doc*	documents available for transmission
etc/setup.cache	server setup file created by \fIfaxsetup\fP
etc/cid	caller id access control list
etc/config.<devid>	configuration data for <devid>
etc/hosts.hfaxd	hosts that may submit jobs for transmission
etc/tsi	fax machine receive access control list
etc/xferfaxlog	log of facsimile sent and received
info/*	data base of remote fax machine capabilities
client/*	\s-1FIFO\s+1 special files created by client processes
config/*	prototype configuration files used by \fIfaxaddmodem\fP
log/*	session logging records
recvq/fax*	received facsimile
sendq/q*	descriptions of jobs queued for transmission
doneq/q*	descriptions of jobs that are done
status/*	server status information
tmp/*	temporary files created when submitting a job
archive/*	database of archived jobs
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxsetup (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxgetty (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxsend (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxrcvd (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxconfig (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxmodem (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxstate (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR notify (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR pollrcvd (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR recvstats (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR xferfaxstats (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR archive (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR dialrules (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR doneq (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR hosts.hfaxd (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR info (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR log (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR tsi (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR recvq (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR sendq (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR status (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR xferfaxlog (${MANNUM4_5}),
.PP
Extensive documentation is available in online at
http://www.hylafax.org/.
Many of these materials are also included in the software distribution.
