.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH NOTIFY ${MANNUM1_8} "May 8, 1996"
.SH NAME
notify \- \*(Fx user notification script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SPOOL}/bin/notify
.I qfile
.I why
.I jobtime
[
.I nextTry
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bin/notify
is the command script invoked by the facsimile server to notify a
user about the status of an outbound job.
The default notification script sends the user
electronic mail describing the event or action.
The arguments are:
.TP 10
.B qfile
the pathname of the job description file.
.TP
.B why
a string that specifies why the user is being notified; one of:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta  +\w'poll_no_document    'u +\w'Notes    'u
\fBWhy\fP	\fBNotes\fP	\fBMeaning\fP
\fIdone\fP		job was completed successfully
\fIfailed\fP	 \(S1	job was not completed
\fIrejected\fP		job was rejected for specified reasons
\fIblocked\fP		job is blocked by concurrent jobs
\fIrequeued\fP	\(S1	job was not completed, but was requeued for retry
\fIremoved\fP		job was deleted from the queue
\fIkilled\fP		job was deleted from the queue
\fItimedout\fP		job could not be sent before kill time expired
\fIformat_failed\fP		document conversion failed
\fIno_formatter\fP		the document conversion program was not found
\fIpoll_rejected\fP	\(S1	a polling request was rejected by the remote side
\fIpoll_no_document\fP	\(S1	a polling request failed because nothing was available
\fIpoll_failed\fP	\(S1	a polling request failed for an unknown reason
.sp .5
.fi
.br
\(S1 A transcript of the failed communication is returned
to the sender.
.TP
.B jobtime
the total transmission time of a successful job or the connect
time of a failed request (passed as a string).
.TP
.B nextTry
the time (passed as a string) at which the next attempt will be
made to complete the job.
This parameter is passed only if
.B why
is ``requeued''.
.SH NOTES
The behavior of
.B notify
is intended to be customizable via the
.B etc/FaxNotify
script, if present.  FaxNotify is sourced after the q-file is parsed and
all default values are preset.  Useful settings for FaxNotify are:
.TP
.I WHY
is identical to
.B why
mentioned above and can be useful in determining under what conditions
various settings should take effect.  For example,
.sp
.nf
.ft C
if [ "$WHY" != "done" ]; then
    RETURNFILETYPE=pdf;
fi
.ft R
.fi
.sp
This would only set
.B RETURNFILETYPE
when the job did not complete successfully.
.TP
.I RETURNFILETYPE
can be set to ``tif'', ``pdf'', ``ps'', or ``original''.  If set,
this causes
.B notify
to return a copy of the submitted documents to the
.B SENDER
address along with the notification message.  The ``original'' setting
uses the format type that was used in the submission.
.TP
.I RETURNTECHINFO
defaults to ``yes'' and is used to indicate whether or not technical
information such as the session parameters should be included with the notification
message.  If set to anything other than ``yes'' this information will
not be included.
.TP
.I RETURNTRANSCRIPT
defaults to ``yes'' only on the error conditions noted above and is used to
indicate whether or not the session transcript (log) should be returned with the
notification message.
.TP
.I NOTIFY_FAXMASTER
is used to deliver a notification message to
.B TOADDR
(which defaults to ``FaxMaster'') that contains technical information
about the job.  This is useful in allowing the administrator to be aware of
any problems before those problems are reported by the users.
Possible settings are ``yes'', ``always'', ``no'', ``never'', and ``errors''.
If ``errors'' is used then the notification message is only sent to FaxMaster
when the job experienced an error.  The default is ``no''.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'${SENDMAIL}    'u
${SPOOL}	spooling area
${SENDMAIL}	for delivering mail
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR sendq (${MANNUM4_5})
