.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH PAGESEND ${MANNUM1_8} "October 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
pagesend \- \*(Fx IXO/TAP and UCP transmit program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${LIBEXEC}/pagesend
[
.B \-l
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-c
.I config
]
.B \-m
.I device-ID
.I qfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pagesend
is the program that implements the
.SM IXO/TAP
and the
.SM UCP
transmission protocol for the \*(Fx system.
.I pagesend
is invoked by the
.I faxq
scheduler process for each pager transmit attempt.
.I pagesend
assumes that its current working directory is the top of
the spooling hierarchy and that a suitable modem device
has been allocated for its use.
In normal use
.I pagesend
will inherit a lockfile for the modem from the
.I faxq
process.
The format of the job description file specified on the
command line is described in
.IR sendq (${MANNUM4_5}).
.PP
.I pagesend
initializes the modem before attempting to transmit the pager message
using the information in the appropriate modem configuration file.
If the modem does not respond to this initialization,
.I pagesend
will repeatedly try to initialize the modem.
This behaviour is required for send-only environments in which a
.IR faxgetty (${MANNUM1_8})
process is not run (and the modem would be known to be in a
properly initialized state).
.I pagesend
catches
.SM SIGINT
and
.SM SIGTERM
and cleans up any resources it controls; this is the mechanism
used by
.I faxq
to abort a job while it is in progress.
.PP
Many aspects of
.I pagesend
operation are controlled through a configuration file.
The configuration file is located in the spooler hierarchy
in the
.B etc
subdirectory and is named
.BI config. device-ID ;
consult
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5})
for detailed information on the contents of configuration files.
.PP
The protocol which must be used for a specific service provider
is controled from the
.IR info (${MANNUM4_5})
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-c " config"
Treat
.I config
as a configuration parameter specification that is interpreted
after reading the per-device configuration file.
For example, ``-c sessiontracing:0x4f'' would set the
.B SessionTracing
configuration parameter to ``0x4f'', overriding any setting in
the configuration file.
.TP 10
.BI \-m " devID"
The device to use in processing the job.
Note that this is a \fIdevice identifier\fP and not the
pathname of the tty special file.
A device identifier is formed from a device filename by removing
any leading ``/dev/'' and converting any ``/'' characters to ``_''
characters.
.TP 10
.B \-l
Do the
.SM UUCP
lockfile protocol in
.IR pagesend .
By default
.I pagesend
assumes that it is invoked with the device already locked
and that it does not need to manage the lockfile.
.TP 10
.B \-p
Do not change the process priority when transmitting.
Normally
.I pagesend
will raise its priority to reduce i/o latency.
This option is useful for debugging.
.SH NOTES
.I pagesend
returns the new job status to
.I faxq
through the
.IR exit (2)
return value of the process:
.I send_retry
(0), retry job;
.I send_failed
(1), job finished without success,
.I send_done
(2), job completed successfully,
.I send_reformat
(3), job should be retried after documents are reformatted.
.SH FILES
${SPOOL}/etc/config.devID	device-specific configuration file
.PP
Consult
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5})
for a complete discussion of the structure and
content of the spooling area.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5}),
.IR info (${MANNUM4_5})
