.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH PAGERMAP 4F "May 8, 1996"
.SH NAME
pagermap \- \s-1SNPP\s+1 pager identifier mapping file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.B etc/pagermap
(by default) is used by the \s-1SNPP\s+1 support in
.IR hfaxd (1M)
to map pager identifiers specified with the \s-1PAGE\s+1 directive
to
.SM IXO/TAP
or
.SM SMS
service providers and optionally a Pager Identification
Number (\s-1PIN\s+1).
(The ability to specify a \s-1PIN\s+1 makes it possible to define 
.I aliases
for pagers.)
Note that 
.B etc/pagermap
may be called a different name; the filename is specified
with the
.I PagerIDMapFile
configuration parameter read by
.IR hfaxd (1M).
.PP
The pagermap file is comprised of one or more
lines of the following format:
.sp
.nf
.RS
<\fIpattern\fP> <\fIdialstring\fP>[/<\fIpin\fP>]
.RE
.fi
.PP
Each line specifies a <\fIpattern\fP> that is matched against
a client-specified pager identifier string.
A pattern may be a plain string or a
.SM POSIX
1003.2 extended regular expression; plain strings
must compare exactly while regular expressions are unanchored and any
substring match constitutes a ``hit''.
Regular expressions are distinguished from plain strings by the
presence of one or more of the magic characters ``[]*.^$-+{}()''.
The <\fIdialstring\fP> identifies the
.SM IXO/TAP
or
.SM SMS
service provider to contact for delivery or, if <\fIdialstring\fP>
is the string ``reject'' (case insensitive) then the pager identifier
is rejected.
If the optional <\fIpin\fP> is specified then it used to deliver the
page instead of the client-specified identifier.
.PP
If the matching expression is a regular expression
the optional <\fIpin\fP\>
may reference the entire string matched by the
regular expression with the ``&'' character.
Substrings matched with the ``(...)'' constructs may be referenced
by using ``\e\fIn\fP'' where
.I n
is a single numeric digit between 1 and 9 that refers to the
.IR n -th
matched substring; c.f.
.IR re_format (7),
.IR sed (1),
etc.
.PP
.I hfaxd
processes lines in the mapping file sequentially; the first line
with a pattern that matches the pager identifier is used to deliver
or reject the page.
Lines that begin with a ``#'' are treated as comments and discarded.
Leading whitespace on a line is also ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following defines an alias for ``sam'', submits all destinations
with a leading ``Sky'' to a particular
.SM IXO/TAP 
service provider, and otherwise rejects the pager ID.
(Note that using alphabetics in dial strings requires
a dialstring rules file that understands how to map alphabetics
to key codes\(emor one that passes them through verbatim.)
.sp .5
.nf
.RS
.ft C
.ta \w'Sky(.*)    'u
# a simple mapping example
sam	5551212/99
Sky(.*)	1800SkyTel/\e1
\&.*	reject
.ft P
.RE
.fi
.sp .5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hfaxd (1M),
.IR hylafax (4F)
