.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\"  HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Sn \s-1SNPP\s+1
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH SENDPAGE 1 "May 12, 1996"
.SH NAME
sendpage \- submit a pager job for transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sendpage
[
.I options
] [
.IR message ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sendpage
submits a pager transmission request
to a server using the Simple Network Paging Protocol (\*(Sn)
described in 
.SM RFC
1861.
Pager requests specified with
.I sendpage
are normally processed immediately, although
they may also be queued for transmission at a later time
using a syntax identical to the
.IR at (1)
command.
For each job that is queued,
.I sendpage
prints a
.I "job identifier"
on the standard output.
A job identifier is the token by which jobs are
identified within \*(Fx.
Job identifiers can be supplied to the
.IR faxrm (1)
command to remove the jobs or to the
.IR faxalter (1)
command to alter job parameters.
.PP
Pages may be sent to one or more destination
paging terminals and, optionally,
include a text message (depending on the capability of the receiving device).
Each destination is identified by a
Pager Identification Number (\s-1PIN\s+1) specified with the
.B \-p
option; for example,
sendpage -p 12345 ``Help, the fax machine is on fire!''.
A
.SM PIN
is typically a numeric string though it may also be an alpha-numeric
alias depending on the capabilities of the \*(Sn server.
.PP
Text messages can be specified on the command line or taken from
standard input.
The
.B \-n
option must be used if no text message is to be supplied with
the page request\(emas for a numeric-only pager.
Text supplied to the paging system is sent exactly as submitted
including any newline, carriage return, or non-ASCII data.
Message preparation including filtering and formatting
must be done prior to submitting the data to
.IR sendpage .
Note that text supplied on the command line does not include a
trailing newline character.
.PP
The order of options on the command line is significant.
Each page to be transmitted is assigned the current value of
parameters specified on the command line; e.g. whether or not to
queue the request.
This means that options that specify parameters for a particular
destination must precede the pager ID specified with the
.B \-p
option.
For example,
.IP
sendpage -l 2 -p sam Your network is hosed
.LP
submits a page to ``sam''
that has service level 2 while
.IP
sendpage -p sam -l 2 Your network is hosed
.LP
submits the same page but with the default service level (1).
Note also that parameter values persist across 
.B \-p
options so the following
.IP
sendpage -l 0 -p sam -p 5551212 Your network is hosed
.LP
submits two pages, both of which have service level 0.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-a " time"
Schedule transmission at the indicated
.IR time .
Times are specified using the syntax of the
.IR at (1)
command; e.g. ``now + 30 minutes'' to schedule transmission
30 minutes in the future.
By default,
.I sendpage
schedules pages for ``now''.
(In \*(Sn parlance this option specifies the ``hold time'' for the page;
and may result in the page being delivered to the paging terminal but
not delivered to the user until the specified time.)
.TP 12
.B \-D
Enable notification by electronic mail when the
page has been delivered to the service provider.
This option is meaningful only when communicating with a
\*(Fx server.
.TP 12
.BI \-f " from"
Use
.I from
as the identity of the message sender.
Otherwise the sender is the user that invoked
.IR sendpage .
The sender is an account name to which the \*(Fx software
should direct email notification messages.
The
.I from
identity may be a fullblown ``From:'' line, e.g.
e.g. ``Joe Blow <joe@foo.com>''
and ``joe@foo.com (Joe Blow)'' are acceptable.
If no host-part is specified in the
.I from
string the local hostname is used.
This option is useful when
.I sendpage
is invoked on behalf of another user, such as in the implementation
of an electronic mail to pager gateway.
.TP 12
.BI \-h " \fR[\fPmodem\fR@]\fPhost\fR[\fP:port\fR]\fP"
Force the jobs to be processed on a specific
.I host
and, optionally, using a particular
.IR modem .
The
.I host
may be either a symbolic name or a network address.
If no
.B \-h
option is supplied,
.I sendpage
uses the
.SM SNPPSERVER
environment variable to identify the \*(Sn server to
which the pages should be directed.
If no server is specified then
.I sendpage
attempts to contact a server on the local host.
If no modem is specified, the job will be submitted to any
available modem.
.TP 12
.BR \-I " time"
If a job must be requeued because of a communication failure schedule
the retry according to the specified
.IR time .
Times are given in seconds.
Minutes, hours, and days can be specified with
``\fImin\fP'', ``\fIhour\fP'', and ``\fIday\fP'' suffixes, respectively.
By default \*(Fx reschedules jobs using retry times that depend on
the manner in which the job failed; this interface permits a user to
override this algorithm and specify a single fixed retry time for all
communication failures.
This option is meaningful only when communicating with a
\*(Fx server.
.TP 12
.BR \-l " level"
Specify a particular service
.I level
to use in delivering a page.
A service level defines both a scheduling priority and
the time that a client is willing to wait to find out
if delivery is successful or not.
Normal delivery is obtained with level 1 (default).
The \*(Sn specification identifies level 0 as the highest
priority service level with levels 1-7 lower priority
and levels 8-11 vendor/server-specific.
For \*(Fx server machines the mapping between service level
and scheduling priority is defined by the configuration of
the \*(Sn server process; see the
.B PriorityMap
parameter in
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8})
.TP 12
.B \-n
Send to a numeric-only paging device; i.e. do not send a text
message in the paging request.
.TP 12
.B \-N
Do not notify the sender by electronic mail when the
page has been delivered to the service provider (default).
This option is meaningful only when communicating with a
\*(Fx server.
.TP 12
.BI \-p " PIN"
The Pager Identification Number (\s-1PIN\s+1) for a terminal 
that is to receive the message.
A message can be sent to multiple destinations by specifying multiple
.B \-p
options.
.TP 12
.B \-q
Mark pages to be queued on the server and do not wait for
their delivery.
By default
.I sendpage
conforms to the \*(Sn spec by synchronously waiting for
each page to be delivered.
This option instructs 
.I sendpage
to submit one or pages and then terminate immediately
without waiting for their completion.
When pages are queued it is advisable to enable email
notification with the
.B \-D
or
.B \-R
options.
Job queueing is a non-standard function of the \*(Sn
implementation in \*(Fx and is not available when submitting
pages to non-\*(Fx servers.
.TP 12
.B \-R
Enable notification by electronic mail when the
message has been delivered and when it is requeued for retransmission.
\*(Fx will always notify the sender by electronic mail
if there is problem delivering a page (irregardless of the
email notification setting).
This option is meaningful only when communicating with a
\*(Fx server.
.TP 12
.BI \-s " subject"
Set the ``subject'' for the specified pages according to
.IR subject .
For \*(Fx 
.I subject
is used as the identifier string returned in any email
notification messages (instead of the usual job
identifier number).
This option is useful for applications that cross reference
notification messages against job submissions.
.TP 12
.BI \-t " tries"
Make no more than
.I tries
attempts to send the page.
By default, \*(Fx will terminate a job if:
3 consecutive attempts to send a particular message fail, or
it appears the receiver is not a service provider.
Otherwise \*(Fx places no limit on the
.I number
of attempts to send a page, instead terminating a job
if it is not completed within a fixed period of time
specified by the service level.
Note that a try
is a phone call in which carrier is established and the 
.SM IXO/TAP
or
.SM UCP
protocol is commenced; this is contrasted with a call
attempt that might have failed because the line was busy.
This option is meaningful only when communicating with a
\*(Fx server.
.TP 12
.BI \-T " dials"
Make no more than
.I dials
phone calls when attempting to send a page.
By default, \*(Fx will terminate a job if:
12 attempts to reach a service provider fail, or
it appears the receiver is not a service provider.
Otherwise \*(Fx terminates a job
if it is not completed within a fixed period of time
specified by the
.IR "service level" .
This option is meaningful only when communicating with a
\*(Fx server.
.TP 12
.B \-v
Trace the protocol between
.I sendpage
and the \*(Sn server process that does the delivery
work on the remote machine.
This information is directed to the standard output.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.I sendpage
reads configuration information from the files
.BR ${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf ,
.BR ${LIBDATA}/sendpage.conf ,
and
.BR ~/.hylarc ;
in that order.
Configuration files follow the conventions described in
.IR hylafax-client (1).
The following configuration parameters are recognized:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'ServiceLevel    'u +\w'integer    'u +\w'\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1    'u
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
HoldTime	string	\-	hold time to assign to pages
Host	string	\s-1localhost\s+1	host to contact for service
MailAddr	string	\-	mail address for notification messages
MaxDials	integer	\s-112\s+1	times to retry dialing
MaxTries	integer	\s-13\s+1	times to retry transmission
Notify	string	\s-1none\s+1	control email notification
Port	integer	\s-1444\s+1	port to use in contacting server
Protocol	string	\s-1tcp\s+1	protocol to use in contacting server
QueueSend	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	whether or not to queue pages
RetryTime	string	\-	delay between failed attempts to send
ServiceLevel	integer	\s-1\s+1	SNPP service level for pages
Verbose	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	whether or not to enable protocol tracing
.fi
.PP
The configuration parameters are explained below:
.TP 15
.B HoldTime
The hold time to assign to pages.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-a
option.)
.TP 15
.B Host
The host to contact for service.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 15
.B MailAddr
The electronic mail address to direct notification messages from the
server.
If this string is specified without an ``@hostname'' part then the
local hostname will automatically be appended.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-f
option.)
.TP 15
.B MaxDials
The maximum number of times to dial the phone for each job.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-T
option.)
.TP 15
.B MaxTries
The maximum number of times to retry sending a job.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-t
option.)
.TP 15
.B Notify
Control the email notification messages from the server.
This string may be one of ``done'', ``none'', ``requeued'' or ``default''
with an optionally preceding ``when '' (e.g. ``when done'').
Note that ``when requeued'' implies ``when done''.
(Equivalent to the
.BR \-D ,
.BR \-R ,
and
.B \-N
options.)
.TP 15
.B Port
The network port to contact for service.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 15
.B Protocol
The name of the communication protocol to use when contacting a server.
(Equivalent to the
.B SNPPSERVICE
environment variable.)
.TP 15
.B QueueSend
Control whether or not to wait for the pages to be delivered.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-q
option.)
.TP 15
.B RetryTime
The time to delay between job retries due to a communication failure.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-I
option.)
.TP 15
.B ServiceLevel
The
.SM SNPP
service level to assign to each page.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-l
option.)
.TP 15
.B Verbose
Control protocol tracing.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-v
option.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are used by
.IR sendpage :
.TP 15
.B SNPPSERVER
The identity of the \*(Sn server to contact for service.
This value is specified as ``[\fImodem\fP@]\fIhost\fP[:\fIport\fP]''
where
.I host
is either a host name or the Internet ``.'' (dot) address of
the host;
.I port
is the
.SM TCP
port number or service name to use (default is ``snpp'' or 444);
and
.I modem
is an optional modem name or class on the server machine to use
in processing the requests (this is meaningful only when the
server is running \*(Fx).
.TP 15
.B SNPPSERVICE
The communication service specification for communicating with
the \*(Sn server.
This value is specified as ``\fIport\fP[/\fIprotocol\fP]''; by
default ``444/tcp''.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/tmp/sndpageXXXXXX    'u
.nf
${SPOOL}/tmp/sndpageXXXXXX	temporary files
.fi
.SH NOTES
The phone number of the pager service provider is stored on the
server machine and is not specified by the user; this is a departure
from pager support that was supplied with \*(Fx version 3.0.
.PP
\*(Fx version 3.0 used to recognize a null text message and assume
the destination paging device was numeric-only.
This is no longer true; if a null text message is submitted then
a null message will be included in the paging request.
This may cause paging requests submitted to ``real SNPP'' servers
to be rejected if the paging device is in fact numeric-only.
When sending to a numeric-only paging device the
.B \-n
option should be used.
.SH BUGS
It is not possible to page text- and non-text devices together;
.I sendpage
must be run twice, once to send to text-capable devices and once to send
to non-text devices.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR at (1),
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR faxalter (1),
.IR faxrm (1),
.IR faxstat (1),
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hfaxd (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server(${MANNUM4_5})
