.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\"  HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH SENDFAX 1 "June 21, 1996"
.SH NAME
sendfax \- submit a facsimile job for transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sendfax
[
.I options
] [
.IR files ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sendfax
submits one or more facsimile transmission requests
to a \*(Fx facsimile server.
Requests are normally processed immediately, although
they may also be queued for transmission at a later time
using a syntax identical to the
.IR at (1)
command.
For each job that is queued,
.I sendfax
prints a
.I "job identifier"
and a
.I "job group identifier"
on the standard output.
A job identifier is the token by which jobs are
identified within \*(Fx; job group identifiers are
used to reference a set of jobs that have been
submitted at the same time.
Job and job group identifiers can be supplied to the
.IR faxrm (1)
command to remove the jobs or to the
.IR faxalter (1)
command to alter job parameters.
.PP
Facsimile are made from the concatenation
of a cover page (see below)
and one or more files specified on the command line.
If no files are supplied on the command line,
.I sendfax
will read data from the standard input unless polling is requested.
Cover pages are distinguished for the purpose of generating ``\c
.IR "continuation cover pages" ''
on the server;
these are makeup cover pages that are automatically generated if a
job fails after sending the original user-specified cover page.
.PP
.I sendfax
passes \*(Ps\(rg and
.SM TIFF
documents directly through to the fax server for transmission,
and attempts to convert other file formats to either \*(Ps or
.SM TIFF.
In normal operation
.I sendfax
automatically converts
.SM ASCII\c
-text,
.IR troff (1)
output,
Portable Document Format (PDF), and
Silicon Graphics format images for transmission.
Support for other file formats can be easily added
through an extensible file typing and conversion facility; see
.IR typerules (4F).
Note that since
.SM TIFF
Class F documents are processed directly it is simple to forward
a received facsimile.
.PP
By default
.I sendfax
will generate a cover page for each facsimile that is to be transmitted.
This cover page is created by the ancillary
.IR faxcover (1)
program using information deduced by
.I sendfax
and by information supplied on the command line.
Automatic cover page generation may be suppressed with the
.B \-n
option.
.PP
In addition to sending documents,
.I sendfax
can be used to poll a remote facsimile machine to retrieve
waiting documents.
If the
.B \-p
option is specified, a polling request will be submitted
to each destination.
If a poll request is made in conjunction with the transmission
of documents, the poll request will take place after the documents
are transmitted.
Documents retrieved by polling are returned to the requestor
by electronic mail and may be viewed with a suitable viewer program.
.PP
One or more destinations must be specified on the command line
using the
.B \-d
option.
A destination is the dialing string to use to contact
the remote fax machine.
Phone numbers may include non-alphanumeric characters for
readability\(emonly alphanumerics and ``+'' (for denoting a
country code) are significant in placing a call.
Alphabetic characters are automatically mapped to their numeric
key equivalents: ``abcABC'' to ``2'', ``defDEF'' to ``3'', etc.
Dialing prefixes, such as ``1'' and ``011''
(for long distance calling in the United States) need
not be included if an unambigous number is specified.
Examples of unambiguous phone numbers are:
.nf
.sp .5
.RS
.ta \w'+31.77.594.313      'u
\+31.77.594.131	\fIto call the Netherlands\fP
+14159657824	\fIto call California\fP
9657824	\fIto make a local call\fP
1-215-356-1666	\fIto call Pennsylvania from within the US\fP
.RE
.sp .5
.fi
Non-numeric strings, such as ``*70'' (to defeat
call waiting), may be included in the destination phone number.
Whether or not they are stripped from the string used to
dial the destination fax machine is dependent on the dialstring
rules configured for use on the server; c.f.
.IR config (4F)
and
.IR dialrules (4F).
.PP
A destination may also be specified as
.IR user@fax-number .
In this case the
.I user
string will be passed to
.I faxcover
as the identity of the recipient.
Note that multi-word names must be enclosed in quote marks;
for example,
``Sam Leff\&ler@+1.415.555.1212''.
.PP
The order of options on the command line is significant.
Each fax to be transmitted is assigned the current value of
parameters specified on the command line; e.g. whether or not to
generate a cover page.
This means that options that specify parameters for a particular
destination must precede the dialstring specified with the
.B \-d
option.
For example,
.IP
sendfax -n -d 5551212 /etc/passwd
.LP
submits a fax to 5551212 that has no cover page while
.IP
sendfax -d 5551212 -n /etc/passwd
.LP
submits the same fax but with the default cover page handling.
Note also that parameter values persist across 
.B \-d
options so the following
.IP
sendfax -n -d 5551212 -d 5551313 /etc/network
.LP
submits two facsimile, both of which have no cover page.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-1
Transmit facsimile documents using 1-D MR compression.
By default \*(Fx will use the optimal compression scheme supported
by the transmitting modem and receiving facsimile device.
.TP 12
.B \-2
Transmit facsimile documents using 2-D MR compression, if possible.
By default \*(Fx will use the optimal compression scheme supported
by the transmitting modem and receiving facsimile device.
.TP 12
.BI \-a " time"
Schedule transmission up to one year in advance at the indicated
.IR time .
.I Time 
is specified in the format:
``[HH:MM [AM|PM]|now] [+ N 
.I period 
| 
.I month 
DD | 
.I dayofweek 
]\'\' where 
.I month 
can be Jan(uary), Feb(ruary), Mar(ch), Apr(il), May, Jun(e), Jul(y), 
Aug(ust), Sep(tember), Oct(ober), Nov(ember), or Dec(ember); 
.I period 
can be minute(s), hour(s), day(s), week(s), or month(s); 
.I dayofweek 
can be Mon(day), Tue(sday), Wed(nesday), Thu(rsday), Fri(day), 
Sat(urday), Sun(day); 
e.g. ``now + 30 minutes\'\' to schedule transmission
30 minutes in the future.  Trailing information in the 
.I time 
field (such as YYYY) is ignored. 
By default,
.I sendfax
schedules facsimile for immediate delivery.  Time should be given 
in the user's local time.
.TP
.BI \-b " speed"
Transmit facsimile documents using a signalling rate that is
constrained to be at least
.I speed
bits/second.
If the specified speed is greater than the transmitting modem
or receiver is capable of, it is reduced to the highest possible
speed both devices support.
If a negotiated signalling rate greater than or equal to
.I speed
cannot be negotiated then the job is aborted.
Possible speeds are: 2400, 4800, 7200, 9600, 12000, and 14400.
By default \*(Fx will use the fastest possible rate supported by
the transmitting modem and receiving facsimile device.
.TP
.BI \-B " speed"
Try to transmit facsimile documents using the
desired signalling rate.
Possible speeds are: 2400, 4800, 7200, 9600, 12000, and 14400.
If the specified speed is greater than the transmitting modem
or receiver is capable of, it is reduced to the highest possible
speed both devices support.
By default \*(Fx will use the fastest possible rate supported by
the transmitting modem and receiving facsimile device (unless
restricted by other server configuration); this
option can be used to reduce the speed.
Note that international calls are frequently more reliable when
transmissions are restricted to 9600 bits/second.
.TP 12
.BI \-c " comments"
Pass
.I comments
to the
.IR faxcover (1)
program for inclusion in the comments field of any generated
cover page.
.TP 12
.BI \-C " file"
Pass
.I file
to the
.IR faxcover (1)
program for use as the cover page template.
.TP 12
.B \-D
Enable notification by electronic mail when the
facsimile has been delivered.
By default \*(Fx will notify the submitter only if there is
a problem with a job.
.TP 12
.BI \-d " destination"
Create a job to transmit the supplied documents to
a facsimile machine at the indicated
.IR destination .
If the
.I destination
is of the form ``\fIuser\fP@\fIphone-number\fP'' then any
cover page will show \fIuser\fP as the intended receipient.
.TP 12
.B \-E
Disable use of the Error Correction Mode (\s-1ECM\s+1)
when transmitting page data.
By default \*(Fx will attempt to use \s-1ECM\s+1 when both
the trasmitting modem and receiving device support it.
Note that international calls are sometimes faster when
\s-1ECM\s+1 is disabled.
Beware also that some modems and/or facsimile devices do not
properly implement \s-1ECM\s+1 causing transmission failures.
.TP 12
.BI \-f " from"
Use
.I from
as the identity of the facsimile sender.
Otherwise the sender is the user that invoked
.IR sendfax .
The sender is an account name to which the \*(Fx software
should direct notification messages.
The
.I from
identity may be a fullblown ``From:'' line, e.g.
e.g. ``Joe Blow <joe@foo.com>''
and ``joe@foo.com (Joe Blow)'' are acceptable.
If no host-part is specified in the
.I from
string the local hostname is used.
This option is useful when
.I sendfax
is invoked on behalf of another user, such as in the implementation
of an electronic mail to fax gateway.
.TP 12
.BI \-F " format"
Use the specified
.I format
when imaging tag lines on outgoing pages.
Consult the description of the
.B TagLineFormat
parameter in
.IR config (4F)
for an explanation of how to construct a format string.
.IP
\fINote that many locales require that proper identification
appear on all transmitted facsimile; when using this facility
one should always include proper identification (e.g. a phone
number) in the imaged taglines.\fP
.IR 
.TP 12
.BI \-h " \fR[\fPmodem\fR@]\fPhost\fR[\fP:port\fR]\fP"
Force the jobs to be processed on a specific
.I host
and, optionally, using a particular
.IR modem .
The
.I host
may be either a symbolic name or a network address.
If no
.B \-h
option is supplied,
.I sendfax
uses the
.SM FAXSERVER
environment variable to identify the \*(Fx server to
which the jobs should be directed.
If no server is specified then
.I sendfax
attempts to contact a server on the local host.
If no modem is specified, the job will be submitted to any
available modem.
.TP 12
.BI \-i " identifier"
Use the 
.I identifier
string in any notification messages instead of the usual job
identifier number.
This option is useful for applications that cross reference
notification messages against job submissions.
.TP
.BI \-I " time"
If a job must be requeued because of a communication failure schedule
the retry according to the specified
.IR time .
Times are given in seconds.
Minutes, hours, and days can be specified with
``\fImin\fP'', ``\fIhour\fP'', and ``\fIday\fP'' suffixes, respectively.
By default \*(Fx reschedules jobs using retry times that depend on
the manner in which the job failed; this interface permits a user to
override this algorithm and specify a single fixed retry time for all
communication failures.
.TP 12
.BI \-k " time"
Kill the job if it does not complete in the indicated
.IR time .
As for the
.B \-a
option, the
.I time
is specifed using notation compatible with
.IR at (1).
Note that the
.I time
is relative to the time of the initial transmission attempt.
The default kill time is ``now + 3 hours'' (three hours from the time
the job is first processed).
To retry for an hour, ``now +1 hour'' could be used.
.TP 12
.B \-l
Transmit the facsimile at a vertical resolution of
98 lines/inch; otherwise known as \fIlow resolution\fP.
.TP 12
.B \-m
Transmit the facsimile at a vertical resolution of
196 lines/inch; otherwise known as \fImedium resolution\fP
or \fIfine mode\fP.
.TP
.BI \-M " mst"
Transmit facsimile documents using the specified
minimum scanline time.
Possible times are: 0ms, 5ms, 10ms2, 10ms, 20ms2, 20ms, 40ms2, and 40ms.
If the specified time is less than the transmitting modem
or receiver is capable of, it is increased to the lowest possible
time both devices support.
By default \*(Fx will use the lowest possible time supported by
the transmitting modem and receiving facsimile device (unless
restricted by other server configuration).
This option is mostly useful for debugging.
.TP 12
.B \-n
Suppress the automatic generation of a cover page for
subsequent facsimile.
Note that polling requests do not receive a cover page unless they
are combined with the transmission of one or more files.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not notify the sender by electronic mail when the
facsimile has been delivered or requeued.
.TP 12
.B \-p
Poll each destination for any available documents.
If a poll request is made together with document transmission, the
poll operation is done after the documents are transmitted.
Documents received by polling are returned to the sender by
electronic mail.
.TP 12
.BI \-P " priority"
Assign the specified scheduling
.I priority
to subsequent jobs.
A priority is an integer value in the range [0-255].
Lower values result in higher priority processing.
By default, each job is assigned 127 for an initial scheduling priority.
A job's priority is raised (numerically lowered) for each
failed attempt to transmit so that retransmit attempts
are done ahead of newly submitted jobs.
The
.I priority
may also be specified as one of the following symbolic names:
.I default
or 
.I normal
(127),
.I bulk
or
.I junk
(207),
.I high
(63).
.TP 12
.B \-R
Enable notification by electronic mail when the
facsimile has been delivered and when it is requeued for retransmission.
By default \*(Fx will notify the submitter only if there is
a problem with a job.
.TP 12
.BI \-r " regarding"
Pass 
.I regarding
to the
.IR faxcover (1)
program as the value of the ``Re:'' field of any generated cover page.
.TP 12
.BI \-s " size"
Set the page size to use for the transmitted facsimile.
Facsimile are normally imaged with a system-default page size
(usually letter-size pages, 8.5" by 11", for sites in North America).
Alternate page sizes are specified symbolically using either
the name or abbreviation of an entry in the
.IR pagesizes (4F)
database; e.g.
.I a3
(ISO A3),
.I a4
(ISO A4),
.I a5
(ISO A5),
.I a6
(ISO A6),
.I b4
(ISO B4),
.I na-let
(North American Letter),
.I us-leg
(American Legal),
.I us-led
(American Ledger),
.I us-exe
(American Executive),
.I jp-let
(Japanese Letter),
and
.I jp-leg
(Japanese Legal).
Comparisons are case-insensitive and any match of a
substring of the full page-size name is sufficient; e.g. ``legal'' would
match ``American Legal''.
.IP
Note that it may not be permissible to image into the
full page area; the guaranteed reproducible area for a page is 
typically inset.
Also, note that while arbitrary page sizes can be specified through
the page size database,
only a limited set of page dimensions are supported by the
Group 3 facsimile protocol.
Thus if an odd-size facsimile is submitted for transmission
it may not be possible to determine if it can be sent
until the fax server establishes communication
with the remote facsimile machine.
.TP 12
.BI \-t " tries"
Make no more than
.I tries
attempts to send the facsimile.
By default, \*(Fx will terminate a job if:
3 consecutive attempts to send a particular page fail, or
it appears the receiver is not a facsimile machine.
Otherwise \*(Fx places no limit on the
.I number
of attempts to send a facsimile, instead terminating a job
if it is not completed within a 
.I "kill time"
timeout interval.
Note that a try
is a call in which carrier is established and the facsimile
protocol is commenced; this is contrasted with a call
attempt that might have failed because the line was busy.
.TP 12
.BI \-V " voice-no"
Pass
.I voice-no
to the
.IR faxcover (1)
program as the destination person's voice number.
.TP 12
.BI \-x " company"
Pass
.I company
to the
.IR faxcover (1)
program as the destination company name.
.TP 12
.BI \-y " location"
Pass
.I location
to the
.IR faxcover (1)
program as the destination company's location.
.TP 12
.B \-v
Print information on the standard output
about each conversion and cover sheet
generation operation it does.
If 
.B \-v
is specified twice, the protocol between
.I sendfax
and the
.I hfaxd
server process that does the submission work on the
remote machine is also displayed.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.I sendfax
reads configuration information from the files
.BR ${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf ,
.BR ${LIBDATA}/sendfax.conf ,
and
.BR ~/.hylarc ;
in that order.
Configuration files follow the conventions described in
.IR hylafax-client (1).
The following configuration parameters are recognized:
.sp .5
.nf
.ta \w'AutoCoverPage    'u +\w'boolean    'u +\w'\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1    'u
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
AutoCoverPage	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	automatically generate cover page
ChopThreshold	float	\s-13.0\s+1	page chopping threshold
CoverCmd	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	pathname of cover sheet program
Cover-Comments	string	\-	cover page comments string
Cover-Company	string	\-	cover page company name string
Cover-Location	string	\-	cover page company location string
Cover-Regarding	string	\-	cover page regarding string
Cover-Template	string	\-	cover page template filename
Cover-Voice	string	\-	cover page voice number string
DateFormat	string	\-	cover page date format string
DesiredEC	boolean	\-	desired use of \s-1ECM\s+1
DesiredMST	string	\-	desired minimum scanling time to use
DesiredSpeed	integer	\-	desired signalling rate to use
DialRules	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	file containing dialstring rules
From	string	\-	sender's identity
HRes	float	\s-1204.\s+1	horizontal resolution
Host	string	\s-1localhost\s+1	host to contact for service
KillTime	string	\-	time to expire job
MailAddr	string	\-	mail address for notification messages
MaxDials	integer	\s-112\s+1	times to retry dialing
MaxTries	integer	\s-13\s+1	times to retry transmission
MinSpeed	integer	\-	minimum acceptable signalling rate
Modem	string	\-	modem to use on server
Notify	string	\s-1none\s+1	control email notification
PageChop	string	\s-1default\s+1	control page chop handling
PageLength	float	\-	page length in millimeters
PageSize	string	\s-1default\s+1	page size by name
PageWidth	float	\-	page width in millimeters
Port	integer	\s-14559\s+1	port to use in contacting server
Priority	string	\s-1default\s+1	job scheduling priority
Protocol	string	\s-1tcp\s+1	protocol to use in contacting server
RetryTime	string	\-	delay between failed attempts to send
SendTime	string	\-	time to send job
TagLine	string	\-	tagline format string
TypeRules	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	file containing file typing rules
VRes	float	\s-198.\s+1	vertical resolution
Verbose	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	whether or not to enable protocol tracing
.fi
.PP
The configuration parameters are explained below.
Certain configuration parameters, notably those for setting strings
on automatically generated cover pages, are defined mainly for use
by other \*(Fx programs that share common code used by
.IR sendfax .
.TP 16
.B AutoCoverPage
Control whether or not a cover page is automatically generated
for each job.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-n
option.)
.TP 16
.B ChopThreshold
The amount of white space, in inches, that must be present at the bottom
of a page before \*(Fx will attempt to truncate the page transmission.
.TP 16
.B CoverCmd
The absolute pathname of the program to use to generate cover pages.
The default cover sheet program is 
.BR ${BIN}/faxcover .
.TP 16
.B Cover-Comments
The comments string to pass to the cover sheet program when
auto-generating cover pages.
.TP 16
.B Cover-Company
The company name string to pass to the cover sheet program when
auto-generating cover pages.
.TP 16
.B Cover-Location
The company location string to pass to the cover sheet program when
auto-generating cover pages.
.TP 16
.B Cover-Regarding
The regarding string to pass to the cover sheet program when
auto-generating cover pages.
.TP 16
.B Cover-Template
The absolute pathname of a cover sheet template file to use
in auto-generating cover pages.
.TP 16
.B Cover-Voice
The voice number string to pass to the cover sheet program when
auto-generating cover pages.
.TP 16
.B DateFormat
The 
.IR strftime (3)
format string to pass to the cover page command when auto-generating
cover pages.
.TP 16
.B DesiredEC
Whether or not to request the use of the optional
Error Correct Mode (\s-1ECM\s+1) when transmitting facsimile.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-E
option.)
.TP 16
.B DesiredMST
The desired minimum scanline time to use when transmitting facsimile.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-M
option.)
.TP 16
.B DesiredSpeed
The desired signalling rate to the use when transmitting facsimile.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-B
option.)
.TP 16
.B DialRules
The name of the file containing the dialstring processing rules to
when preparing an externally visible representation of the dialstring
(e.g. to strip credit card numbers).
By default this is ${LIBDATA}/dialrules.
.TP 16
.B From
The sender's identity.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-f
option.)
.TP 16
.B Host
The host to contact for service.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 16
.B HRes
The horizontal resolution to use when transmitting facsimile.
(NB: \fIthis currently has no effect\fP.)
.TP 16
.B KillTime
The expiration time to assign to each job.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-k
option.)
.TP 16
.B MailAddr
The electronic mail address to direct notification messages from the
server.
If this string is specified without an ``@hostname'' part then the
local hostname will automatically be appended.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-f
option.)
.TP 16
.B MaxDials
The maximum number of times to dial the phone for each job.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-T
option.)
.TP 16
.B MaxTries
The maximum number of times to retry sending a job.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-t
option.)
.TP 16
.B MinSpeed
The minimum acceptable signalling rate to use when transmitting facsimile.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-b
option.)
.TP 16
.B Modem
The modem to use on the server.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 16
.B Notify
Control the email notification messages from the server.
This string may be one of ``done'', ``none'', ``requeued'' or ``default''
with an optionally preceding ``when '' (e.g. ``when done'').
Note that ``when requeued'' implies ``when done''.
(Equivalent to the
.BR \-D ,
.BR \-R ,
and
.B \-N
options.)
.TP 16
.B PageChop
Control page chop handling when transmitting facsimile.
This string may be one of ``none'', ``all'', or ``last' to have
no pages chopped, all pages chopped, or only the last page chopped;
respectively.
Page chopping is controlled by the 
.B ChopThreshold
parameter.
.TP 16
.B PageLength
Set the transmitted page length in millimeters.
.TP 16
.B PageSize
Set the page dimensions according to an entry in the
.IR pagesizes (4F)
database.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-s
option.)
.TP 16
.B PageWidth
Set the transmitted page width in millimeters.
.TP 16
.B Port
The network port to contact for service.
(Eqvuialent to the
.B \-h
option.)
.TP 16
.B Priority
The scheduling priority to assign to each job.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-P
option.)
.TP 16
.B Protocol
The name of the communication protocol to use when contacting a server.
(Equivalent to the
.B FAXSERVICE
environment variable.)
.TP 16
.B RetryTime
The time to delay between job retries due to a communication failure.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-I
option.)
.TP 16
.B SendTime
The time to send jobs.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-a
option.)
.TP 16
.B TagLine
The tagline format string to use when transmitting facsimile.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-F
option.)
.TP 16
.B TypeRules
The name of the file containing file type conversion rules.
By default this is ${LIBDATA}/typerules.
.TP 16
.B Verbose
Control protocol tracing.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-vv
option.)
.TP 16
.B VRes
Set the vertical resolution in lines/inch
to use when transmitting facsimile.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-m
and
.B \-l
options.)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following messages are generated because of problems
encountered on the local machine.
.PP
.B "Could not call server."
The facsimile server on the remote machine did not respond.
.PP
.B "No input data; tranmission aborted."
No data was supplied (typically on the standard input).
No facsimile will be sent.
.PP
.B "Error converting data; command was "%s."
A data conversion operation failed; the shell
command that was used is printed.
.PP
.B "Can not convert %s."
Data needed to be converted for transmission, but the
required conversion rule was not located.
This may indicate that the \*(Fx
software was incorrectly installed; or perhaps
that an
.SM NFS\c
-mounted directory is temporarily unavailable.
.PP
.B "%s: Can not determine file type."
.I sendfax
was unable to deduce the type of the file.
.PP
.B "%s: Not a regular file."
The file is something other than a regular file; for
example, a directory.
.PP
The following messages may be printed by
.IR sendfax .
These messages describe problems encountered by
the server process on the remote machine.
This list is incomplete;
other messages may be generated by the server under
unusual circumstances.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/sendfax.conf    'u
.nf
~/.hylarc	per-user configuration file
${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf	system-wide configuration file
${LIBDATA}/sendfax.conf	system-wide configuration file
${LIBDATA}/typerules	file type and conversion rules
${LIBDATA}/pagesizes	page size database
${LIBDATA}/dialrules	optional client dialstring rules
${BIN}/faxcover	for generating cover sheets
${LIBEXEC}/textfmt	for converting text to PostScript
${LIBEXEC}/sgi2fax	for converting SGI RGB images
/usr/tmp/sndfaxXXXXXX	temporary files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR at (1),
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR faxalter (1),
.IR faxcover (1),
.IR faxmail (1),
.IR faxrm (1),
.IR faxstat (1),
.IR sgi2fax (1),
.IR textfmt (1),
.IR hfaxd (1M),
.IR hylafax-server (4F),
.IR typerules (4F)
