.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH SGI2FAX 1 "June 14, 1994"
.SH NAME
sgi2fax \- convert a Silicon Graphics image file for facsimile transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${LIBEXEC}/sgi2fax
[
.I options
]
.IR files ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sgi2fax
converts Silicon Graphics format images to
bilevel
.SM TIFF
Class F images in preparation for transmission as facsimile.
.I sgi2fax
is not normally invoked directly; it is usually run by
.IR sendfax (1)
when an
.SM SGI
image file is submitted for transmission.
.PP
Images are converted by scaling them to fill the guaranteed
reproducible area on a default page.
Each 
.SM RGB
pixel
.I p
is converted to greyscale according to:
.nf
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fIp\fP\dr\u * %r + \fIp\fP\dg\u * %g + \fIp\fP\db\u * %b
.sp .5
.fi
where %r, %g, and %b default to 30, 59, and 11, respectively.
Greyscale images are then process with a high pass filter
and dithered to a bilevel image.
The resultant image are written as a 
.SM TIFF
Class F document.
.PP
By default, the output image is created with 204 dots/inch
horizontal resolution and 98 lines/inch vertical resolution.
The image is written as Group 3 1D-encoded data.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-1
(\c
.BR \-2 )
Write the image as Group 3 1D- (2D-) encoded data.
.TP
.BI \-b " %b"
Set the
.I %b
parameter used to convert color pixel values
to greyscale pixel values.
.TP
.BI \-g " %g"
Set the
.I %g
parameter used to convert color pixel values
to greyscale pixel values.
.TP
.B \-l
Generate an image at 98 lines/inch vertical resolution.
know as \fIlow resolution\fP.
.TP
.B \-m
Generate an image at 196 lines/inch vertical resolution.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
Write output to
.I file
instead of the default file named
.BR sgi.fax .
.TP
.BI \-r " %r"
Set the
.I %r
parameter used to convert color pixel values
to greyscale pixel values.
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
Set the output size according to the named page size.
Images are normally created with a system-default page size
(usually letter-size pages, 8.5" by 11", for sites in North America).
Alternate page sizes are specified symbolically using either
the name or abbreviation of an entry in the
.IR pagesizes (${MANNUM4_5})
database; e.g.
.I a3
(ISO A3),
.I a4
(ISO A4),
.I a5
(ISO A5),
.I a6
(ISO A6),
.I b4
(ISO B4),
.I na-let
(North American Letter),
.I us-leg
(American Legal),
.I us-led
(American Ledger),
.I us-exe
(American Executive),
.I jp-let
(Japanese Letter),
and
.I jp-leg
(Japanese Legal).
Comparisons are case-insensitive and any match of a
substring of the full page-size name is sufficient; e.g. ``legal'' would
match ``American Legal''.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/pagezes    'u
${LIBDATA}/pagesizes	page size database
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR hylafax-server(${MANNUM4_5})
