.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH SHUTDOWN 4F "January 18, 1996"
.SH NAME
\fBetc/shutdown\fP \- server shutdown control file
.SH DESCRIPTION
If the file
.B etc/shutdown
is present it describes when a \*(Fx server is to be shutdown
and may contain a descriptive message to return to clients explaining
the reason for the shutdown.
This file is used by the
.IR hfaxd (1M)
program.
.PP
The file has the following format:
.sp
.nf
.RS
<\fIyear\fP> <\fImonth\fP> <\fIday\fP> <\fIhour\fP> <\fIminute\fP> <\fIdeny\fP> <\fIdisconnect\fP>
<\fIshutdown message text\fP>
.RE
.fi
.PP
The first line defines the date and time the server should be shutdown
and the time preceding at which unprivileged clients should be
denied service or disconnected;
these fields are described in more detail below.
Any lines that follow the first are taken as the text of a message to
return to clients when notifying them of a scheduled shutdown or when
denying them service.
.TP 10
<\fIyear\fP>
The decimal year; e.g. 1996.
.TP 10
<\fImonth\fP>
The decimal month; e.g. 10 for October.
.TP 10
<\fIday\fP>
The decimal day of the month in the range [1..31].
.TP 10
<\fIhour\fP>
The decimal hour since midnight; in the range [0..23].
.TP 10
<\fIminute\fP>
The decimal minute after the hour; in the range [0..59].
.TP 10
<\fIdeny\fP>
The time prior to the shutdown time at which to deny service
to unprivileged clients.
This value is specified as decimal number in the form HHMM; e.g.
130 for 1 hour and 30 minutes.
.TP 10
<\fIdisconnect\fP>
Time time prior to the shutdown time at which to disconnect
unprivileged clients that are logged in to the server.
This value is specified as a decimal number in the form HHMM.
.SH NOTES
This file is typically created using the ``\s-1SHUT\s+1'' command
supported by 
.IR hfaxd (1M).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hfaxd (1M),
.IR hylafax-server (4F)
