.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH TAGTEST ${MANNUM1_8} "March 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
tagtest \- \*(Fx tag line testing program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/tagtest
[
.I options
] input.tif
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tagtest
is a program for testing the ``tag line'' support in the \*(Fx server.
.I tagtest
takes a
.SM TIFF/F
(\c
.SM TIFF
Class F) file and
generates a new
.SM TIFF/F
file that is a copy of the input file, but with sample tag lines imaged
across the top of each page.
Options are provided for specifying 
a tag line format string and a tag line font file.
If neither are specified, then
.I tagtest
will use builtin defaults.
.I tagtest
is designed for testing tag line format strings
and fonts before they are configured for use by the
facsimile server.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-f " file"
Image the tag line format string using the
Portable Compiled Font (\s-1PCF\s+1) in
.IR file .
By default
.I tagtest
looks for the font file
.BR fixed.pcf .
.TP
.BI \-m " format"
Use
.I format
when imaging tag lines.
If this option is not specified, then
.I tagtest
uses the format string ``From %%n|%c|Page %%p of %%t''.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
Write output to
.IR file .
By default output is written to the file
.BR t.tif .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxsend (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5})
