.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.TH TEXTFMT 1 "May 17, 1996"
.SH NAME
textfmt \- convert text to \*(Ps\(rg for facsimile transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${LIBEXEC}/textfmt
[
.I options
] [
.IR files ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I textfmt
takes
.SM ASCII
text and generates formatted \*(Ps\(rg
suitable for facsimile transmission.
It is usually invoked as a filter program by the
.IR sendfax (1)
program.
Input files may be specified on the command line.
If none are given, then
.I textfmt
will read from standard input.
.PP
By default,
.I textfmt
will generate an output document that is formatted with a single
vertical column of text, set in a 10 point fixed width font, and
with a simple page header that consists of the file name, last
modification date, and the page number.
Pages are generated according to the default page dimensions
(see
.IR pagesizes (${MANNUM4_5})).
When multi-column output is requested, text is set by default with
a 7 point fixed width font.
.SH OPTIONS
Many of the options to
.I textfmt
have been chosen for compatibility with the Adobe Systems'
.I enscript
program; other options are for features that are not provided by
.IR enscript .
.TP
.B \-1
Set text in one column.
.TP
.B \-2
Set text two columns.
.TP
.B \-B
Suppress page headers.
.TP
.B \-c
Clip long text lines instead of wrapping them at page margins.
.TP
.B \-D
Do not use
.SM "ISO 8859-1"
encoding in the generated \*(Ps.
.TP
.BI \-f " font"
Set text using the \*(Ps font named
.IR font .
.TP
.BI \-F " fontdir(s)"
.IR Path(s)
to \s-1afm\s+1 font files.
.TP
.B \-G
Use a gaudy-style page header.
.TP
.BI \-m " cols"
Set text in
.I cols
columns.
.TP
.BI \-M "\fBl=\fP#,\fBr=\fP#,\fBt=\fP#,\fBb=\fP#"
Set the page margins; the default margins are:
left and right .25 inch, top .85 inch, bottom .5 inch.
.TP
.B \-o
Draw an outline around each column of text; the specified number 
defines the width of the line that is drawn.
.TP
.BI \-p " pts"
Set text using fonts with
.I pts
point size.
.TP
.B \-r
Set pages rotated by 90 degrees (in ``Landscape mode'').
.TP
.B \-R
Set pages unrotated (in ``Portrait mode'').
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
Set the output size according to the named page size.
Images are normally created with a system-default page size
(usually letter-size pages, 8.5" by 11", for sites in North America).
Alternate page sizes are specified symbolically using either
the name or abbreviation of an entry in the
.IR pagesizes (${MANNUM4_5})
database; e.g.
.I a3
(ISO A3),
.I a4
(ISO A4),
.I a5
(ISO A5),
.I a6
(ISO A6),
.I b4
(ISO B4),
.I na-let
(North American Letter),
.I us-leg
(American Legal),
.I us-led
(American Ledger),
.I us-exe
(American Executive),
.I jp-let
(Japanese Letter),
and
.I jp-leg
(Japanese Legal).
Comparisons are case-insensitive and any match of a
substring of the full page-size name is sufficient; e.g. ``legal'' would
match ``American Legal''.
.TP
.B \-U
Reverse collate pages; that is the last page will appear first
in the resultant \*(Ps, then the next-to-last page, etc.
.TP
.BI \-V " spacing"
Set the line height; the default height is 1.2 x point size.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS"
.I textfmt
reads configuration information from the files
.BR ${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf ,
and
.BR ~/.hylarc ;
in that order.
Configuration files follow the conventions described in
.IR hylafax-client (1).
The following configuration parameters are recognized:
.sp .5
.nf
\fBTag	Type	Default	Description\fP
Columns	integer	\s-11\s+1	number of columns in formatted output
GaudyHeaders	boolean	\s-1No\s+1	enable/disable guady page headers
FontMap       string  \s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1 location of ghostscript Fontmap file
FontPath      string  \s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1 directory for font metric files
ISO8859	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	use ISO 8859-1 character encoding
LineWrap	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	wrap/truncate text lines
Orientation	string	\s-1portrait\s+1	orientation of text on page
OutlineMargin	inches	\s-10\s+1	width of outline line
PageCollation	string	\s-1forward\s+1	collate pages in forward or reverse direction
PageHeaders	boolean	\s-1Yes\s+1	enable/disable page headers
PageHeight	float	\-	output page height
PageMargins	string	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	margins for formatted page
PageSize	string	\s-1default\s+1	output page size from database
PageWidth	float	\-	output page width
TabStop	integer	\s-18\s+1	inter-stop setting in characters
TextFont	string	\s-1Courier\s+1	name of font for setting text
TextLineHeight	inches	\-	text formatting line height control
TextPointSize	inches	\s-1\fIsee below\fP\s+1	size to use in setting text
.fi
.PP
The configuration parameters are explained below.
Most parameters correspond to a command line option.
Parameter values identified above as
.I inches
are converted according to the following conventions
(where ``#.##'' is a decimal number):
.RS
.nf
.sp .5
.ta \w'#.##sp    'u
#.##bp	big point (1in = 72bp)
#.##cc	cicero (1cc = 12dd)
#.##cm	centimeter
#.##dd	didot point (1157dd = 1238pt)
#.##in	inch
#.##mm	millimeter (10mm = 1cm)
#.##pc	pica (1pc = 12pt)
#.##pt	point (72.27pt = 1in)
#.##sp	scaled point (65536sp = 1pt)
.RE
.fi
.LP
Unit names can be upper or lower case but no white space
is permitted between the number and the unit.
Values specified with no unit are interpreted as points.
.TP 15
.B Columns
The number of columns to set text in.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-m
option.)
.TP 15
.B FontMap
The directory or directories where the ghostscript Fontmap file(s)
are located; multiple paths are seperated by a colon (":"). The
Fontmap table allows the translation of the descriptive name of the
font (as used by the
.IR TextFont
parameter) to the ghostscript font filenames. Setting the value to ""
(zero length string) disables this translation and provides functionality
with RIPs other than ghostscript.
.TP 15
.B FontPath
The path where Adobe Font Metric (\s-1AFM\s+1) files are
located; by default ${FONTPATH}. (Equivalent to the
.B \-F
option.)
.TP 15
.B GaudyHeaders
Control whether or not to use a gaudy-style page header.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-G
option.)
.TP 15
.B ISO8859
Control the use of
.SM "ISO 8859-1"
encoding in the generated \*(Ps
(Equivalent to the
.B \-D
option.)
.TP 15
.B LineWrap
Control whether long text lines are wrapper or truncated at the
right hand margin.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-c
option.)
.TP 15
.B Orientation
Control whether pages are oriented horizontally (``landscape'')
or vertically (``portrait'').
(Equivalent to the
.B \-r
and
.B \-R
options.)
.TP 15
.B OutlineMargin
Control whether columns of text have a line drawn around them and
the width of the line.
Setting this parameter to 0 disables outlines.
(Equivalent to the 
.B \-o
option.)
.TP 15
.B PageCollation
Control whether the output file has pages collated in the same
order as the input file (``forward'') or in reverse order (``reverse).
(Equivalent to the
.B \-U
option.)
.TP 15
.B PageHeaders
Control whether page headers are generated.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-B
option.)
.TP 15
.B PageHeight
Set the output page height in inches (in inches).
.TP 15
.B PageMargins
Set the output page dimensions.
Dimensions are specified as string of the form:
``\fBl=\fP#,\fBr=\fP#,\fBt=\fP#,\fBb=\fP#''
where 
.B l
indicates the left margin,
.B r
indicates the right margin,
.B t
indicates the top margin,
.B b
indicates the bottom margin, and
numbers are interpreted as 
.IR inches .
(Equvalent to the 
.B \-M
option.)
.TP 15
.B PageSize
Set the output page dimensions by name.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-s
option.)
.TP 15
.B PageWidth
Set the output page width in inches (in inches).
.TP 15
.B TabStop
Set the tab stop distance; in characters.
.TP 15
.B TextFont
Set the descriptive name of font to use for setting text.
(Equivalent to the
.B \-f
option.)
.TP 15
.B TextLineHeight
Set the vertical text line height and spacing.
(Equvalent to the
.B \-V
option.)
.TP 15
.B TextPointSize
Set the point size to use in setting text.
(Equvalent to the
.B \-p
option.)
.SH NOTES
If
.I textfmt
is unable to locate font metric information for a font, then it
will use a fixed-width metric that is 60% of the text point size;
this metric will almost certainly result
in incorrectly formatted \*(Ps.
.PP
.I textfmt
is distantly related to the
.I lptops
program written by Don Beebe.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${LIBDATA}/pagesizes    'u
.nf
${LIBDATA}/hyla.conf	system-wide configuration file
~/.hylarc	per-user configuration file
${LIBDATA}/pagesizes	page size database
${FONTPATH}   font metric files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR hylafax-client (1),
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR pagesizes (${MANNUM4_5})
