.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Tf \s-1TIFF\s+1
.TH TIFFCHECK ${MANNUM1_8} "January 18, 1996"
.SH NAME
tiffcheck \- check \*(Tf for \*(Fx conversion requirements
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SBIN}/tiffcheck
[
.I options
]
.I file.tif
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tiffcheck
takes \*(Tf input and writes a multi-line text message to the
standard output describing any work needed to prepare the images
for facsimile transmission.
.I tiffcheck
is usually invoked by
.IR tiff2fax (${MANNUM1_8})
script that is used by the \*(Fx scheduler to prepare \*(Tf documents
submitted for transmission.
.PP
The first line of output is a series of ``+''-separated words that
indicate if the input file should be:
.IP \(bu 3
rejected (``\s-1REJECT\s+1''),
.IP \(bu 3
reformatted with a different data-encoding scheme (``\s-1REFORMAT\s+1''),
.IP \(bu 3
scaled to different page dimensions (``\s-1RESIZE\s+1''),
.IP \(bu 3
reimaged in a different vertical resolution (``\s-1REVRES\s+1''), or
.IP \(bu 3
reimaged for other reasons such as conversion from color to black&white (``\s-1REIMAGE\s+1'').
.PP
The conversion requirements string
will always have keywords in the above order; e.g. ``\s-1RESIZE+REVRES\s+1''
if the input file needs to be scaled and converted to a different resolution.
Information following the first line is descriptive text that explains
the reason(s) for the file conversion(s); this text is suitable for return
to a client (should document conversion fail or not be attempted).
The descriptive text is ordered identically to the keywords in the
conversion string; this makes it possible to match up conversion
requirements to reasons.
.SH OPTIONS
The following operations are recognized:
.TP 10
.B \-1
Set output to be Group 3 1D-encoded.
.TP 10
.B \-2
Set output to be Group 3 2D-encoded.
.TP 10
.B \-3
Set output to be Group 4 MMR-encoded.
.TP 10
.BI \-w " width"
Set the output page
.IR width ,
in pixels.
By default, pages are 1728 pixels wide.
.TP 10
.BI \-l " length"
Set the output page
.IR length
in millimeters.
By default, pages are 297 millimeters long.
.TP
.BI \-r " vres"
Set the vertical resolution,
in lines/inch, at which to image the \*(Tf.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following color image needs to be converted to black&white,
resized to the output page dimensions, and reformatted to use
Group 3 1D-encoded data.
.sp
.nf
.RS
\s-1\fChyla% ${SBIN}/tiffcheck jello.tif
REFORMAT+RESIZE+REIMAGE
Document is not a bilevel image (bits/sample 8).
Document requires reformatting, not in Group 3 format.
Document requires resizing to adjust page width (convert to 1728, document is 256).\fP\s+1
.RE
.fi
.PP
This image is a facsimile received at high resolution (196 lpi); it only
needs to be converted to 98 lpi.
.sp
.nf
.RS
\s-1\fChyla% ${SBIN}/tiffcheck faxix.tif
REVRES
Document requires reformatting to adjust vertical resolution (convert to 98, document is 196).\fP\s+1
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiff2fax (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server (${MANNUM4_5})
