.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.ds Ps P\s-2OST\s+2S\s-2CRIPT\s+2
.ds Tf \s-1TIFF\s+1
.TH TIFF2FAX ${MANNUM1_8} "May 12, 1996"
.SH NAME
tiff2fax \- convert \*(Tf for facsimile transmission by \*(Fx
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SPOOL}/bin/tiff2fax
[
.I options
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bin/tiff2fax
takes \*(Tf input and generates a \*(Tf
Class F image file suitable for facsimile transmission.
It is usually invoked by the \*(Fx scheduler process,
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}).
The default implementation uses the
.IR tiffcheck (${MANNUM1_8})
program and tools from the freely available \*(Tf software
distribution to implement the conversion operations.
.PP
This script can modify outgoing facsimile, such as watermarking,
To do this create a shell script
.B etc/FaxModify
in the spooling area that alters the document.
.SH OPTIONS
The following operations are recognized:
.TP 10
.B \-1
Write Group 3 1D-encoded data to the output file.
.TP 10
.B \-2
Write Group 3 2D-encoded data to the output file.
.TP 10
.B \-3
Write Group 4 MMR-encoded data to the output file.
.TP 10
.BI \-m " pages"
Set the maximum number of pages that are permitted in the
output file.
If more pages are present in the input document then
abort processing.
.TP 10
.BI \-o " file"
Write output to the specified
.I file
instead of the default
.B foo.tif
filename.
.TP 10
.BI \-w " width"
Set the output page
.IR width ,
in pixels.
By default, pages are 1728 pixels wide.
.TP 10
.BI \-l " length"
Set the output page
.IR length
in millimeters.
By default, pages are 297 millimeters long.
.TP
.BI \-r " vres"
Set the vertical resolution,
in lines/inch, at which to image the \*(Ps.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'${SPOOL}/bin/ps2fax    'u
.nf
${SBIN}/tiffcheck	\*(Tf file conversion examiner
${SPOOL}/bin/ps2fax	\*(Ps \s-1RIP\s+1 for doing complicated conversions
${TIFFBIN}/tiffcp	for converting compression schemes
${TIFFBIN}/tiff2ps	for colorspace and/or image size conversions
.fi
.SH BUGS
Conversions that require re-imaging and resizing may result in
images that are poorly placed on the page.
.PP
There is no way to control how images are treated when they are
resized; e.g. the original aspect ratio is not always maintained.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR sendfax (1),
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR hylafax-server(${MANNUM4_5})
