.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH TSI ${MANNUM4_5} "December 5, 1994"
.SH NAME
tsi \- Transmission Subscriber Identification (\c
.SM TSI\c
) access control list
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(Fx configuration parameter
.B QualifyTSI
specifies whether or not the identity of 
a calling facsimile machine should be checked against an access
control list before receiving facsimile.
If 
.B QualifyTSI
is non-null, then only messages from facsimile machines identified
in the file specified by the string (typically \fBetc/tsi\fP)
will be accepted.
.PP
Patterns are specified one per line and must conform to the
regular expressions syntax specified by
.SM POSIX
1003.2; see
.IR re_format (7).
Comments may be included; they are introduced with the ``#''
character and extend to the end of the line.
Any trailing white space on a line is ignored (for convenience
when comments are used).
.PP
If a line begins with ``!'', then the regular expression identifies
clients that should be
.IR rejected ;
otherwise regular expressions identify clients whose transmissions
should be
.IR accepted .
The order of patterns in a
.SM TSI
file is important.
When a facsimile is to be received, the fax server will compare
the client's
.SM TSI
against the patterns in the access control list in the order in which
they appear in the file.
The first pattern that matches the client
.SM TSI
is used to decide whether to accept or reject the facsimile.
If no patterns match the client
.SM TSI
then the facsimile is rejected.
Thus if you want to accept all but a restricted set of
.SM TSI
the last line in the file should be ``^.*$''.
.PP
Note that regular expression patterns should be written to
match a
.SM TSI
exactly.
That is, patterns should be of the form:
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fC^<pattern>$\fP
.PP
where the ``^'' and ``$'' characters are used to
specify the start and end of the matching
.SM TSI.
Additionally, regular expression patterns should handle
white space that may appear in known locations.  For example,
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
\fC^([+]1){1}[ .-]*415[ .-]*555[ .-]*1212.*$\fP
.PP
matches the following
.SM TSI
strings:
.sp .5
.nf
.RS
\fC+1.415.555.1212\fP
\fC    415  555  1212\fP
\fC1-415-555-1212\fP
.RE
.fi
.PP
Finally, note that regular expressions can be used to specify
many
.SM TSI
with one pattern.
.SH NOTES
It would be nice if
.SM TSI
that were to be matched against were placed in some
canonical form (e.g. remove white space and white space-like
characters).
This is, however, problematic, because some facsimile
machines permit any printable
.SM ASCII
string to be sent as a
.SM TSI.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxgetty (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR re_format (7),
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5})
