.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH WEDGED ${MANNUM1_8} "October 3, 1995"
.SH NAME
wedged \- \*(Fx modem wedged script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ${SPOOL}/bin/wedged
.I devid
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bin/wedged
is the command script invoked by the facsimile server when a modem
is deemed to be in an irreparable state and requires operator intervention.
This decision is based on the setting of the
.B MaxSetupAttempts
configuration parameter described in
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5}).
The default
.I wedged
script sends electronic mail to the FaxMaster alias and attempts
to disable any getty processes spawned by the 
.IR init (${MANNUM1_8})
process.
In addition the
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8})
process automatically disables use of the modem for servicing
outbound jobs.
.P
The
.I devid
argument is the identifier derived from the name of the modem's
device file by substituting ``_'' characters for ``/'' characters;
e.g.
.I term_10
for
.IR /dev/term/10 .
The
.I device
argument is the name of the character special device
associated with the modem.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/lib/sendmail    'u
/usr/lib/sendmail	for delivering mail
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8}),
.IR config (${MANNUM4_5})
