.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" HylaFAX Facsimile Software
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990-1996 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1996 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\" HylaFAX is a trademark of Silicon Graphics
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.ds Fx \fIHyla\s-1FAX\s+1\fP
.TH XFERFAXLOG ${MANNUM4_5} "June 5, 1996"
.SH NAME
xferfaxlog \- \*(Fx activity log
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.B etc/xferfaxlog
contains information about inbound and outbound activities.
The file contains one line per inbound or outbound call
(except for facsimile documents retrieved by polling in which
case multiple entries may be present for a single call).
If the modem config setting
.I LogCalls
is set to true, then the file also contains one line per received call.
Lines are fixed-format,
.I tab-separated
.SM ASCII
strings.
.PP
Each record of a facsimile transmission is of the form:
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
date \s-1SEND\s+1 commid modem jobid jobtag sender ``dest-number'' ``\s-1CSI\s+1'' params #pages jobtime conntime ``reason'' \fI<null>\fP \fI<null>\fP ``owner''
.sp .5
.PP
A facsimile reception record is of the form:
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
date \s-1RECV\s+1 commid modem \fI<null>\fP \fI<null>\fP fax ``local-number'' ``\s-1TSI\s+1'' params #pages jobtime conntime ``reason'' ``CIDName'' ``CIDNumber'' \fI<null>\fP
.sp .5
.PP
Each inbound call record is of the form:
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
date \s-1CALL\s+1 commid modem \fI<null>\fP \fI<null>\fP fax ``local-number'' \f1<null>\fP 0 0 jobtime conntime ``reason'' ``CIDName'' ``CIDNumber'' \fI<null>\fP
.sp .5
.PP
Each facsimile document retrieved by polling has a record of the form:
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
date \s-1POLL\s+1 commid modem jobid jobtag sender ``dest-number'' ``\s-1TSI\s+1'' params #pages jobtime conntime ``reason'' \fI<null>\fP \fI<null>\fP \fI<null>\fP
.sp .5
.PP
An alphanumeric pager request has a record of the form:
.sp .5
.ti +0.5i
date \s-1PAGE\s+1 commid modem jobid jobtag sender ``dest-number'' ``\fI<null>\fP'' 0 0 jobtime conntime ``reason'' \fI<null>\fP \fI<null>\fP ``owner''
.sp .5
.PP
The following describes the fields in the above records:
.TP 14
.B date
The date and time of the transaction in the format
.SM "MM/DD/YY HH:MM",
where 
.SM MM
is the numeric month,
.SM DD
the numeric day,
.SM YY
the last two digits of the year, and
.SM HH:MM
is the time in 24-hour format.
.TP 14
.B commid
The communication identifier for the call.
.TP 14
.B modem
The device identifier for the modem that was used to do the send or receive.
.TP 14
.B jobid
The job number for outbound calls.
.TP 14
.B jobtag
The client-specified job tag for outbound calls.
.TP 14
.B sender
The sender/receiver's electronic mailing address
(facsimile receptions are always attributed to the ``fax'' user).
.TP 14
.B dest-number
The phone number dialed for outgoing calls.
.TP 14
.B \s-1TSI\s+1
The Transmitter Subscriber Identification string (as received) for
incoming calls.
.TP 14
.B \s-1CSI\s+1
The Caller Subscriber Identification string of the remote machine
(as reported) for outgoing calls.
.TP 14
.B local-number
The local phone number on which the data was received.
.TP 14
.B params
The negotiated facsimile session parameters
used for transferring data encoded as described below.
.TP 14
.B #pages
The total number of pages transferred.
.TP 14
.B jobtime
The duration of the session; in the format
\s-1HH:MM:SS\s+1.
This time includes setup overhead and any time
spent cleaning up after a call.
.TP 14
.B conntime
The time spent on the phone; in the format
\s-1HH:MM:SS\s+1.
This should be the time used by the PTT to calculate usage charges.
.TP 14
.B reason
A string that indicates if any problem occurred during the session.
.TP 14
.B CIDName
The received CIDName value for the session.
.TP 14
.B CIDNumber
The received CIDNumber value for the session.
.TP 14
.B owner
The login name of the job owner.
.PP
Note that fields may have embedded blanks.
Session parameters are encoded as a decimal number that contains
a packed set of Class 2 session parameter values.
The format is: 2 bits for vertical resolution, 3 bits for signalling rate,
3 bits for page width, 2 bits for page length, 2 bits for data format,
1 bit for ECM use, 1 bit of BF use, and 3 bits for the min scanline time.
The page counts are always integral numbers.
Partial pages that are to be retransmitted are not included
in the page count.
.PP
The simple 
.SM ASCII
format was designed to be easy to process with programs like
.IR awk (1).
.SH NOTES
The sender field does not necessarily represent the submitter's 
actual identity.  For example, it reflects the value given by
the
.IR sendfax (${MANNUM1_8})
``-f'' option.  Be cautious that this field is not utilized
for auditing if the fax user base is not trusted.
.SH BUGS
The date format will ``break'' in the year 2000.
Information should be recorded on a per-page basis for facsimile
communications.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR faxq (${MANNUM1_8})
.IR faxsend (${MANNUM1_8})
.IR faxgetty (${MANNUM1_8})
